Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau THE Confederation of African Athletics Southern Region Senior Championships ended yesterday with triple jumper Chengetayi Mapaya claiming Zimbabwe s only gold medal at the National Sports Stadium. The regional meet saw 11 countries Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe competing in track and field events.Zimbabwe came seventh, managing one gold medal, nine silver and nine bronze in a competition dominated by Botswana, who came first, followed by South Africa on second place.It took Mapaya s 16.01m jump for Team Zimbabwe to earn their only gold medal at the two-day competition that started on Saturday.And his 16.01m mark saw him setting a new national record for the junior men, breaking the previous record of 15.65m set by United States-based Brian Mada as Zimbabwe incorporated some juniors and youths in their team. I am really shocked right now I wasn t expecting to do my best because I am just coming from an injury. So I wasn t really ready. But I had not received so much competition as of yet, so today I got the competition I needed. By seeing the people I was jumping with I was already scared. But I think that got me where I am right now, I didn t give up. I just feel happy right now that s all I can say, said Mapaya.The 18-year-old is set to represent the country at the forthcoming African Junior Championships in Algeria. I believe there are no limits. We should keep going, it s never the end, my dream is to actually be at the top. So 16 it s just the start, it takes more steps to be the greatest. So I am just taking those small steps slowly, I just need the patience to do that. And for the African Championships I am going to go back to basics now before we go just to make sure everything is right. And possibly whatever happens as long as I improve my personal best I don t care about the gold but improving my personal best and breaking the national record again, that s what I am looking for, Mapaya said.Botswana scooped gold medals in most of the events to claim the top position with a total of 20 medals consisting of 12 gold, four silver and an equal number of bronze.South Africa followed with nine gold medals, 10 silver and five bronze and Mozambique were third after they scooped two gold, two silver and three bronze.On fourth place was Namibia while Seychelles and Lesotho were tied on position five with two gold medals each.Zambia and Swaziland finished eighth and ninth respectively while Malawi and Mauritius were tied on position 10 with three medals each.Zimbabwe had hoped to have some senior athletes qualifying for the IAAF World Championships in London in August but this was not the case.Some of the athletes the national association had hoped will make the cut include sprinter Ngoni Makusha of Successful Strides and 800m runner Nyasha Mutsetse.Makusha, however, remains optimistic that if given another chance, he might be able to meet the qualifying times. That was a good event, it was a good learning experience for me. I am still hoping to qualify for the World Championships, maybe I can have another one international race. I know I can hit a 10.12, it s possible, so I think I am heading the right way. If I keep on training I can qualify for the 100m and 200m, said Makusha, who is not related to United States-based long jumper and sprinter Ngonidzashe Makusha.He got two bronze medals for 100m and 200m and a silver medal in the 4x100m relay.The regional event was officially closed by the Minister of Sport and Recreation, Makhosini Hlongwane.