The Late Vice President Joshua Mqabuko NkomoNqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent PEOPLE have been urged to turn up in their numbers at the homestead of the late Vice-President Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo in Kezi today to celebrate his life and contributions to the country before and after independence. The late Father Zimbabwe was born on June 7 in 1917 and this year marks 100 years after he was born.The late Vice President died on July I in 1999 at the age of 82.Running under the theme Celebrating Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo s Centenary through Our Arts, Culture and Heritage the celebrations will be held at St Joseph village under Chief Bidi s area.The chairperson of the Joshua Nkomo Cultural Movement Mr Sibangilizwe Nkomo, who is also the late nationalist s son, yesterday said besides transport challenges, all was set for the centenary celebrations to be held over two days.He said Zimbabweans from all walks of life should come and celebrate the life and legacy of late the Vice-President. I m happy that all is going according to plan. By Thursday night people under traditional leaderships such as Chief Bango, Chief Malaba, Chief Nyangazonke among others had started making their way home, he said. However, our biggest let down is the transport issue as we re being overwhelmed by numbers of people who want to participate in the celebrations. Even those who donated their vehicles are crying about fuel. We expect about 100 000 people at attend the celebrations Mr Nkomo said the centenary celebrations are apolitical and they do not expect political figures to headline the commemorations. We urge all Zimbabweans who believe in the teaching of ubaba uNkomo to come in their numbers because we were tasked by them to have the centenary commemorations. This is not about politics but it s a celebration of Umdala legacy. We are following on ubaba s footsteps in uniting Zimbabweans, said Mr Nkomo.He said there would be entertainment from traditional groups among others.Mr Nkomo said the traditional groups will later joined be joined by contemporary musicians for a music gala which will end tomorrow morning.He said there will be a football and netball tournament for sports lovers whose finals will be played on Sunday.The winners of the tournament will walk away with the Joshua Nkomo Centenary Trophy and Mama MaFuyane Endurance Shield.Mr Nkomo said on Sunday various Christian denominations will pray for peace and prosperity in the country. @nqotshili.