The late Edzai KasinauyoSikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Sports and Recreation Commission has expressed its shock and sorrow over the sudden passing on of former Warriors winger and Zifa executive committee member Edzai Kasinauyo who died on Friday at Donald Gordon Medical Centre, a private hospital in Johannesburg, South Africa, where he had been admitted for a few days. The former Ajax Cape Town and Moroka Swallows winger was 42.In its condolence message, the commission s acting director general Joseph Muchechetere said the late Kasinauyo was a sportsperson with a heart for assisting the sporting fraternity who also supported the organisation s Annual National Sports Awards through his company. It is with a sense of shock and sorrow that we have received the devastating news of the sudden passing on of Edzai Kasinauyo. Edzai was a dedicated Warrior during his hey days and a sportsperson with a heart for assisting the sporting fraternity so that it may be counted among the best movers and shakers in this country. We at the SRC shall remember him for his immense and invaluable contribution to the sports industry through his sport merchandise company thus contributing to the realisation of national sport and recreation ideals. Edzai through his E-Sports supported the Annual National Sport Awards (ANSA), the Team of the Year and Women and Sport Awards.For and on behalf of the Sports and Recreation Commission and indeed my own behalf, I would like to offer our heartfelt condolences to the Kasinauyo family and the entire football community for the sad loss of gallant warrior who dedicated much of his time serving the nation at the highest level of football, said Muchechetere.He said football and the sporting community will now be poorer without Kasinauyo. Our thoughts are with his family during this dark period, may they find comfort in the Lord Almighty. May his dear departed soul rest and anchor in eternal peace. Go well our gallant son we shall forever cherish your unflinching contributions to sport and precisely football, said Muchechetere.Meanwhile, the man who took Kasinauyo to South Africa alongside Ian Gorowa and Edelbert Dinha, Cape Town City chairman John Comitis has also expressed his sorrow on the passing on of Kasinauyo describing him as a true gentleman and an example for all those around him.. It is with great sadness that I must bid farewell to my dear friend and legendary footballer Edzai Kasinauyo. I was the one who brought Edzai to South Africa from Zimbabwe, along with the likes of Ian Gorowa and Edelbert Dinha. I spoke to Edzai just last week. I am still in shock. He was a true gentleman and an example for all those around him. Rest in peace, my friend, said Comitis.