Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent TWO Matobo villagers who were part of a mob that fatally attacked a suspected thief have been arrested. Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson Inspector Philani Ndebele said Ntando Nyathi (40) and Thabani Ncube (25) both of Bhazha area assaulted Thengile Nyathi on June 5.He said Nyathi died on Thursday while admitted at Maphisa District Hospital.Insp Ndebele said Ntando and Thabani have since been arrested and were assisting police with investigations. We have arrested two men from Matobo area in connection with the death of Thengile Nyathi who is also from the same area. The two men Ntando Nyathi and Thabani Ncube are assisting police with investigations. They beat up Nyathi on 5 June and left him critically injured. He later died on Thursday while admitted at Maphisa District Hospital after succumbing to the injuries sustained as a result of the attack, he said.Insp Ndebele said Nyathi, who was suspected to be a thief, tried to get into Ms Faith Sibanda s homestead on June 5 at around 8PM.He said Ms Sibanda screamed and alerted her neighbours who rushed to assist her. He said villagers ganged up on Nyathi and attacked him. Among them were Ntando and Thabani.Insp Ndebele said Ntando and Thabani further assaulted Nyathi with logs on his back until he fell to the ground and his head hit against a rock.He said Nyathi was rushed to Natisa Clinic where he was further referred to Maphisa District Hospital and died after two weeks.Insp Ndebele said Ntando and Thabani had been initially charged with assaulted but were now facing a murder charge following Nyathi s death. I would like to appeal to villagers to desist taking the law into their own hands. Whenever the community apprehends a suspect they should take him to the police station and surrender the person there not to attack them as that is an offence. As police we appreciate the assistance of community members in arresting criminals but they should allow the law to take its course, he said. @DubeMatutu.