Pamela Shumba in St Petersburg, Russia RUSSIA and Africa have the potential to maximise trade by taking advantage of the opportunities they present to each other through industrial reforms of the African continent, Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko said here yesterday. Addressing delegates at the 21st St Petersburg International Economic Forum during a Russia-Africa business roundtable, VP Mphoko said the African continent was a major promising market which the Russians should take advantage of.Held under the theme, A structural approach to co-operation in the new economic reality , the roundtable was held alongside the economic forum which was officially opened yesterday. At the present time trade between the Russian Federation and Africa stands at a maximum of $12 billion. But the African continent is a highly promising market for the Russian industry and an important supplier of much needed raw materials. The $12 billion therefore could be increased significantly. Africa is operating in a fast changing global, social, economic and political environment, said VP Mphoko.He said it was sad that attempts by African States to find home grown solutions to their problems have always encountered challenges. Worsening poverty in most of the African economies has largely weakened this effort towards self determination. Pan Africanist efforts through the African Union have not yielded the much desired results because negotiations at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) level have largely failed. The majority of African States also have problems with their former colonial masters who in a number of cases have imposed economic sanctions against them, said the VP.He said Russia-Africa, Russia-Sadc and Russia-Zimbabwe economic cooperation can be achieved through the structural transformation of African countries including Zimbabwe from being exporters of raw materials to exporters of value added manufactured goods. VP Mphoko commended the relationship between Zimbabwe and Russia and paid tribute to President Vladimir Putin, saying the former Soviet Union has proved to be Zimbabwe s all weather friend. Today Zimbabwe is a proud sovereign country through the unwavering support it received from the Federation of Russia as we were rendered logistical and requisite training skills and other support that enabled us to effectively and efficiently execute the war of liberation against colonial rule. The two countries enjoy cordial diplomatic relations. On behalf of His Excellency President Mugabe and the Government of Zimbabwe I wish to thank the Russian Federation for using its veto power which had been dormant for 16 years, in favour of Zimbabwe at the United Nations Security Council in July 2008, said the VP.He added that Russia was a first world nation endowed with modern technology and Zimbabwe is a developing nation rich in natural resources and mineral wealth. Zimbabwe and Russia can therefore operate economically on a win-win situation as the Russian Federation transfers its technical skills to the Zimbabwean people. The two countries have operated in the setting up of the Great Dyke Investments (Pvt) Ltd that is mining platinum in Darwendale, Zimbabwe. This is a typical example of the Zimbabwe-Russian economic cooperation, said VP Mphoko.Russia, he added, uses at least 20 million flowers per year during its social events, giving Zimbabwe an opportunity to supply the flowers required in Russia. He said Zimbabwe was a beef producing country with a $2 billion export quota to the European Union which was suspended by the EU in August 2001. @pamelashumba1&nbsp;