Norman MapezaPaul Mundandi in Zvishavane Shabanie Mine 1-1 FC Platinum THE Zvishavane derby lived to its billing yesterday as both teams settled for a thrilling draw in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match at Maglas Stadium.A third minute strike by Talent Chawapihwa thrust FC Platinum into the lead, but Wellington Taderera levelled matters in the 15th minute.Kick-off was delayed for about 20 minutes following an order from the PSL, who wanted hundreds of fans outside to access the stadium.It was also a good afternoon for Bikita-based referee Arnold Ncube and his assistants, who were given a standing ovation by Shabanie Mine fans for the manner in which they handled the tension filled game.It was also a day in which Chawapihwa showed fans what a good dribbler he is, while William Mapfumo showed that age is just a number as he was outstanding throughout.FC Platinum were rewarded for their passing game when midfielder Rodwell Chinyengetere got the better of Mapfumo on the right and delivered a cross into the box.Hilary Bakacheza back heeled the ball to Pure Platinum Play livewire Chawapihwa, whose shot whistled past Shabanie Mine keeper Samuel Mafukidze.The goal didn t silence the Chinda Boys fans, who kept urging their team, and they were duly rewarded 12 minutes later.Dylan Nyandoro collected a long clearance on the right and threaded a defence splitting pass to Taderera, who coolly controlled the ball and slotted it past goalkeeper Petros Mhari, who had come off his line to narrow the angle.Chawapihwa, who caused all sorts of problems for Shabanie, could have restored the visitors lead when he went past Mapfumo, but he shot weakly at Mafukidze.As if the derby belonged to the two players, Taderera had earlier seen his header cleared off the line by Mhari with fans already celebrating.However, assistant referee Tainec Mwadira, who was well positioned, kept his flag down.FC Platinum were missing the services of injured former Hwange hitman Gift Mbweti and Mhangura-born utility player William Sitima.An excited Shabanie coach Takesure Chiragwi was excited after the match. It was a 50-50 game and it was a pity that we conceded early. We managed to come back very strongly and I am happy with the fighting attitude shown by my players. It was a good day for my players and both sets of fans because they enjoyed football. I have a lot of respect for (FC Platinum coach) Norman (Mapeza). He is my former coach, he made me to be what I am and he has a good team, said Chiragwi. The match today had no personal issues. It was not Chiragwi versus Mapeza, but it was Shabanie playing FC Platinum. I loved the spirit; I loved the respect shown by the fans to both sets of teams, including the match officials. I applaud everyone for coming and enjoying the game, he said.FC Platinum assistant coach Lizwe Sweswe was also content with the result. It was a fair result for us. Shabanie Mine are playing well just like us. It s, however, time we start collecting maximum points, but one point away from home is not bad, said Sweswe.The derby attracted a number of soccer fans, a number of sports journalists, coaches and former players. PSL chief executive officer Kennedy Ndebele and Harare City coach Philani Ncube were also part of the crowd at Maglas.TeamsShabanie Mine: S Mafukidze,T Chigede,William Mapfumo,L Nyamande,A Dzumbunu,N Mpofu,,C Dhuwa,W Taderera(C Makoto 77th ),D Chivandire(N Maziwisa 70th ),F Mupasiri,M MurimiFC Platinum:P Mhari,E Moyo,K Moyo,I Nekati,G Takwara,S DShoko,W Mhango,R Chinyengetere,T Chawapihwa,H Bakacheza(C Sibanda 77th)OfficialsReferee: Arnold Ncube 1st assistant referee: Tainec Mwadira 2nd assistant referee: Bernard Matenga 4th official: Artwell Mazire