Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent ZANU-PF Bulawayo province has resolved to solve its internal problems without including the party s national leadership. The resolution was arrived at during Saturday s Provincial Co-ordinating Committee meeting.Provincial members agreed to work on addressing divisions in the party which saw violence breaking out at the party s provincial headquarters, Davies Hall, last month.During the violent clashes, some party members including youth League provincial chairperson Cde Anna Mokgohloa were injured while others were arrested.Anti-riot police were called to the party s offices to control some youths who were trying to stop the PCC meeting, accusing the provincial leadership of supporting national commissar Cde Saviour Kasukuwere.In an interview yesterday, Zanu-PF Bulawayo provincial chairperson Cde Dennis Ndlovu said the party had started working on ending the divisions.He said the party s national leadership will only be informed about progress being made in addressing the problem as the province seeks homegrown solutions. We touched a bit about our divisions. It s not an easy thing but we have to work together. We have to solve them on our own without outsiders. We have to solve them without involving the hierarchy, the headquarters, said Cde Ndlovu. The headquarters can only come after we have tried and failed in solving the problem but we can t invite them without even making attempts to deal with our problems. We can always tell them about what is happening and try to solve the problems that we have. If we fail then we can invite the upper body to come and help us. He said at the moment it was very difficult to state what was causing divisions in the province. At the moment it s not very clear. We have to talk to involved parties in trying to understand what their problems are. Maybe after that, that s when you can say that we are dealing with such and such a problem. In the first place we don t know what the problem is. But since we don t know what the issue is about, we can only see people being divided; what causes their divisions is unknown, said Cde Ndlovu. @nqotshili.