The late Cde Chinx and his two wivesBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent ZANU-PF has mourned the late musician Dickson Cde Chinx Chingaira who died on Friday, describing him as a stalwart who penned songs that motivated liberation fighters to destroy the colonial regime. Cde Chinx died of leukaemia at the age of 61 at West End Clinic in Harare.Zanu-PF spokesman, Cde Simon Khaya Moyo, said the party was indebted to Cde Chinx for his contribution to pre and post independent Zimbabwe.He said Cde Chinx was in the league of liberation singers such as the late Light Machine Gun founder Give Nare who gave their all to give morale to fighters with their songs. The party will miss you Cde Chinx, but your songs like those composed by your friend Cde Give Nare live forever. You were a true patriot and many youths must learn from your exemplary life and contribution to this free nation. Go well and may your soul anchor and rest in eternal peace, said Cde Moyo. The songs stimulated both ZANLA and ZIPRA fighters into action and helped mobilise the masses into an incredible resistant populace. Cde Chinx performed after independence at various independence celebrations and other state occasions until he fell ill and breathed his last. Cde Moyo said the nation and the party had lost a gifted musician. The party Zanu-PF and the party at large has lost a very talented versatile and amicable personality, whose songs were the tonic for cadres during the liberation struggle and after independence. Like the late Give Nare who was the Light Machine Gun choir master in Zambia during the liberation struggle and after independence, their songs are now part of our liberation history and lasting legacy, said Cde Moyo.Cde Chinx had battled leukaemia for some time and was in and out of hospital.He also had tried to seek help from prophets, apostolic faith churches and traditional healers without success.Early this year, he released an album featuring Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services Civic Education despite his ill-health.Also the Zimbabwe Music Awards last month had handed over a house they had donated to him three years ago as a Lifetime Achievement award for his contribution to the music industry.The iconic revolutionary musician had two wives with 10 children between them.