Donna NShowbiz Reporter THE Bulawayo Arts Awards (BAA) are upon us and it seems some of the nominated artistes and those attending the awards ceremony are feeling the heat. It is normal for them to be nervous as this is the first awards ceremony of that magnitude to be held in the city.Though the National Arts and Merit Awards have been held here before, this ceremony is different as all the limelight will be on artistes from Bulawayo compared to the Namas which are a national event with little attention on Bulawayo artistes, save for the film categories where the city usually dominates.According to rapper, Cal_Vin, the red carpet, which organisers say will be the centre of attraction, is the one freaking them out the most. The world over, most attention at any awards ceremony has been on the red carpet as this is where people get to see all their personalities before they vanish into the awards room. Therefore, any person walking on the red carpet must look the part or prepare to be a laughing stock, have memes created and trend on social media platforms for all the wrong reasons.This is the reason why some are uncomfortable as this is new to them and they are not sure if their choice of clothes will be appropriate for the red carpet where Morris Touch, Bathabile Dlamini and Cde Phil will be on standby to grill people.Cal_Vin, a rapper who has attended numerous awards ceremonies, is top of the list of those who are uncomfortable because of the red carpet. The red carpet has got everybody tripping big time. It s like people are scared of the carpet than losing an award, he posted on his Facebook wall.Afterwards, he questioned if it was necessary to dress up for the red carpet. Do we really need to dress up for the red carpet? I mean is it necessary? Veteran modelling instructor Sarah Mpofu, who usually hogs the limelight at most events, said she was equally nervous. Red carpet events the world over are always something people look at and focus on. The pressure is on and I m very nervous despite all my years of attending awards ceremonies in and out of the country. It s normal for people to feel nervous because they have to impress on the red carpet, said Mpofu.She, however, said having people freak out was good because it shows that organisers have done a good thing and people are taking the event very seriously.Asked who would be dressing her after she caused a stir at the BAA launch party last month when she rocked up in a dress that showed off her cleavage, Mpofu said she is rummaging through her wardrobe in search of an appropriate outfit. There s a Sarah Mpofu special outfit that I want to show off on the red carpet. I ve been going through my wardrobe to find the perfect jaw dropping combination. Radio personality-cum-actress Donna N, who is nominated in the Outstanding Film Actress and Newcomer category, said she was confident she would rock the red carpet. I trust my designers Chante Clothing and Nicky J Bags and I think they ll pull off something great. It s natural for one to be nervous on the red carpet and some want to shine more than others on the red carpet. My advice to people is that they need to be confident in whatever they ll be wearing, said Donna N.Sandra Ndebele, who has lately fallen in love with figure hugging jumpsuits, said she was looking forward to the red carpet. I m working with local and international designers for my outfits. I m waiting for the day to come and I won t disappoint on the red carpet, said Ndebele who is up for the Song of the Year and Outstanding Alternative Music accolades.