Bantu Rovers general manager Wilbert Sibanda (left)Allen Khumalo, Sports Reporter A CASTLE Lager Premiership double header has been lined up at Luveve Stadium this afternoon when Bantu Rovers clash with Tsholotsho in the early kick-off followed by the How Mine and Yadah Stars encounter. It won t be an easy task for Rovers, who will play three league games in six days. Rovers lost 0-3 to Caps United on Tuesday and their third game will be on Sunday when they take on How Mine.Despite the fixture congestion, Rovers general manager Wilbert Sibanda said they were content with their fixtures. We are content with having to play three matches within this period because we want to avoid backlogs, said Sibanda.Rovers extended their winless run in the league to 10 matches in the 0-3 drubbing by Caps at the National Sports Stadium on Tuesday.Rovers have only recorded two wins in the league this season, pummelling Yadah 7-2 and edging Triangle FC 1-0. They are second from the bottom with six points, two above anchors Tsholotsho, who are yet to record a win.Rovers will be counting on the PSL s leading scorer Bukhosi Sibanda to lead them to an unlikely victory this afternoon. Sibanda s goal scoring prowess has been impressive for a struggling side and have so far netted eight times.How Mine will be looking to preserve their unbeaten home run when they meet Yadah.From the five home games How Mine have played, they have registered three wins, 2-1 over Chapungu United, 1-0 over Bantu Rovers and 2-1 over Black Rhinos. They have drawn twice at home, starting with a 1-1 stalemate against Tsholotsho followed by a goalless draw against FC Platinum.How Mine are seventh on the league table with 21 points.Life in the Premiership hasn t been easy for newcomers Yadah, who have only managed three wins from 12 outings. Yadah, who temporarily topped the log, now find themselves in 11th place with 13 points from three wins and four draws.How Mine coach Kelvin Kaindu believes it will be tricky facing Yadah. We have prepared well for the game and from our part everything is in place. The team is free from any injuries so I have the whole ammunition at my disposal. It will be a very unpredictable game because Yadah are an on-off team and their fans are very energetic even when the team is down. That will not scare us in any way because football is played on the field. Coming from a short break, I think we are good to go. We have a good squad and overally the team has performed well even in the away matches, said Kaindu.@khumzallen