Destroyed homes in the wake of the heavy rains which hit the southern parts of ZimbabweSukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent THE Bulilima District Civil Protection Unit (CPU) committee is set to resettle villagers situated close to the district s main rivers ahead of this year s rainy season. Villagers located close to main rivers in Bulilima District namely Manzamnyama, Thekwane and Maitengwe Rivers were left homeless after their homes were swept away due to flooding early this year.Speaking during a Bulilima-Mangwe CPU assessment meeting in Plumtree yesterday, Bulilima District Administrator, Mrs Ethel Moyo, said they were working on a relocation plan.She said the district CPU committee was also working on raising $348 000 to rebuild 29 households that were destroyed by floods. We are in the process of crafting a relocation plan for families that are situated close to main rivers ahead of this year s rainy season. Last year families located close to Manzamnyama, Thekwane and Maitengwe Rivers were left homeless by floods. As the CPU committee we want to make sure that villagers are settled in safe places just in case the district may experience severe rains this coming year. Bulilima Rural District Council is responsible for spearheading the relocation plan, said Mrs Moyo.She said the 29 homesteads in Huwana and Bambadzi Wards were completely destroyed by floods. We need to raise $348 000 towards constructing the 29 households that were completely destroyed. We also need $6 000 towards repairing Matjinge and Nswazwi Clinics which were also damaged by the rains. There is also a need to hold a training workshop to educate villagers on the dangers of settling in water logged areas, said Mrs Moyo.Speaking during the same meeting, Bulilima Rural District Council human resources officer, Mr Bongani Ngwenya, said the local authority was in the process of engaging relevant stakeholders on crafting the relocation plan.He said they were yet to identify how many families needed to be relocated and where they will be resettled. We are in the process of convening relevant authorities to work on the relocation plan. The process is still underway and stakeholders will be updated as we go on, he said.Zimbabweans working in South Africa recently donated groceries to villagers from Huwana Ward who lost their property to floods.45 affected families received blankets, kitchen utensils, stationery and food stuff from the Huwana Foundation Resident in South Africa.The foundation also donated groceries to 54 disadvantaged community members from the same ward.@DubeMatutu