Sukulwenkosi Dube- Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent THREE teenage siblings from Mangwe District have been arrested after they ganged up against their friend and struck him with an axe until he lost consciousness for having a relationship with their younger sister. Zakhele Moyo (17), Dotrodzani Moyo (18) and Mfanelo Moyo (19) of Matshongwane South Village in Mphoengs area were not asked to plead when they appeared before Plumtree magistrate, Mr Taurai Manwere, facing attempted murder charges.They were each remanded in custody to July 3.Prosecuting, Mr Elisha Mazorodze said the trio attacked Mr Oscar Sibanda (19) after suspecting that their juvenile sister who had not slept at home had spent the night with him. On 15 June at around 3PM, Mr Sibanda went to his girlfriend s home where he found her alone. He returned to his home with his girlfriend without the knowledge of her family. At around 6PM, the Moyo siblings returned home and inquired about their sister s whereabouts from a neighbour. They proceeded to Mr Sibanda s homestead looking for their sister but they failed to locate her, said Mr Mazorodze.He said the juvenile did not sleep at home that night and on the following day, her brothers went back to Mr Sibanda s home armed with an axe, whip and bricks.Mr Mazorodze said the trio accused their friend of hiding their sister. Sibanda maintained that he didn t know the whereabouts of his juvenile girlfriend and this angered the trio. They struck him with an axe, bricks and grass whip until he lost consciousness. Mr Sibanda sustained a deep cut on the head and multiple injuries all over the body as a result of the attack, he said.Mr Mazorodze said the matter was reported to the police resulting in the arrest of the three siblings.In another incident, a 22-year-old Mangwe man is facing attempted murder charges after he struck his friend with an axe on the head during a beer brawl.Bongani Dube of Brunapeg area attacked Mr Fredrick Ndlovu (20) after he tried to restrain him from assaulting other patrons.Dube was not asked to plead when he appeared before Plumtree magistrate, Mr Taurai Manwere. He was remanded in custody to June 30.Prosecuting, Mrs Rose Sibanda said Dube attacked his friend on May 21 at around 3AM. On 21 May, Dube was drinking beer at a bottle store together with Mr Ndlovu and other villagers. Dube got drunk and started assaulting patrons with a knobkerrie. Mr Ndlovu restrained him and proceeded with his friend home in order to avoid more altercations. Along the way Dube turned on Mr Ndlovu and demanded to know why he restrained him. Dube became furious and struck his friend with an axe on the head and he sustained a deep cut, she said. @DubeMatutu