Isaac MpofuNkosilathi Sibanda BULAWAYO s long distance pacers vow to compete for top honours in this year s Tanganda Tea Half Marathon a feat that has eluded athletes from the city in a longtime. The 21km stretch is to be run on June 25 in the border town of Mutare and attracts more than 2 000 runners from across the country and abroad. Athletes participate in the 5km, 10KM and 21km events. The race is counted as one of the most difficult runs in the athletics calendar as it demands more than just talent for one to win.The hurdle, as it turns out for Bulawayo athletes, has been the chill, piercing cold morning weather of the Eastern Highlands, coupled with the undulating plains of the route that call for tenacity and endurance.Bulawayo will be represented by by 29-year-old Isaac Mpofu who won the inaugural 42km JM Busha 54 races National Peace Pledge Marathon at the National Sports Stadium.In the same cast there is also Ngoni Ncube, John Payarira and Willard Mutari. Hopes for gold in the ladies are pinned on veteran Samkeliso Moyo, Annie Chirisa and Lisa Dube. We have not managed to finish the Tanganda race well but this time around, I am sure one of us from Bulawayo will take it, said Mpofu who runs for Zimbabwe Republic Police s Fairbridge club.Old time favourite in the women category, Moyo said she hopes to finish in record time and claim the first prize. Just like any other runner, I want to finish well. It is a tough race but I am confident of winning. Bulawayo Athletics Board chairman Manuel Mpofu encouraged the athletics to concentrate on breaking records. We are confident of all athletes that come from our clubs in the city. All household names will be there at the Tanganda half marathon. My advice is that they must break finishing times and make history, said Mpofu.It would not be an easy ride for Bulawayo as last year s winners Kelvin Pangiso and Patience Murove also want to retain the titles.Pangiso strode home in one hour six minutes and eight seconds while Murove claimed the women s race in one hour 19 minutes and eight seconds.Uncontested wheelchair runners Melford Moyo and Thandiwe Ndlovu are expected to take part as well.Farai Garayi, Tanganda Tea Company Operations manager promised an exciting meeting. Tanganda Tea Company is proud to be a major player in supporting athletics in Zimbabwe. We are back this year and promising a lot for athletes and spectators. This is a noble way of saying thank you to the community that buys our tea. The marathon actually complements the endurance of the Tanganda tea brand in the Zimbabwean market and beyond. Some of the Tanganda tea bushes we have were planted close to a century ago and through care and maintenance, these look young and vibrant. That is what comes with the marathon brand. We are complementing Government efforts in promoting sport, said Garayi.The Tanganda Half marathon route is certified by the International Athletics Associations Federation (IAAF) and the organisers have maintained a strict code to adhere to professional standards. We take pride in working closely with national, regional and international athletics bodies, said Garayi.