Blessing Hunkybie SaunyamaMehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter BLESSING Hunkybie Saunyama of Mutare is the winner of this year s Mr Ironman Zimbabwe after beating a field of six senior bodybuilders at the Bulawayo Theatre on Saturday night. The 27-year-old instructor at Body Focus Gym fought off stiff competition from five-time Mr Bulawayo, Lovemore Munyamana, and South Africa-based Ndumiso Dlodlo. It was the first time Saunyama was participating in Mr Ironman Zimbabwe.Despite the small, but vociferous crowd shouting number six, the number worn by Munyamana, Saunyama said he knew he was going to be the champion because of the hard work he had put into preparing for Saturday s show. It s an awesome feeling to win Mr Ironman Zimbabwe. There was no competition for me. I knew I was going to win because of the amount of hard work I put into my preparations. I will buy gym kit and supplements with the prize money, said Saunyama.He took home $500, with Munyamana getting $300 and Dlodlo ($200).The prize money was sponsored by Clarion Insurance, while Muscle Range Supplements also provided food complements for the top bodybuilders in every category.Shantel Greenland put her Arnold Classic Africa heartbreak behind to take Ms Ironman Zimbabwe. Loreen Moyo was second and third place went to Mitchell Matsito.Greenland added to the titles of Ms Western, Ms Bulawayo, Ms Zimbabwe International Trade Fair and Ms Zimbabwe that she has previously won. Greenland took the first prize money of $150, while Moyo settled for $100 and Matsito received $75.In the men s physique, Elvaldo Mateus was champion followed by Tinotenda Gumbo and Benon Nyoni. In the men s fitness, Chamunorwa Marange took the title and Tinotenda Gumbo emerged second.In the men s wheelchair, there were only two competitors, Pearson Tazvivinga, who took first place and Mugoni Chikove the runner-up.Tazvivinga got $100 and $75 went to Chikove.Nigel Simango was the best junior men s Under-23. Ngonidzashe Gwama was second and Itai Vitalwe came third.The prize structure for the top three in the men s physique, fitness, wheelchair and juniors was the same, with $150 for the winner, $100 for the runner-up and $75 for third place.Various sponsors handed out the prizes to the winners, while National Federation of Zimbabwe Body Building and Fitness president Kenneth Murungweni presented the senior men bodybuilders with their accolades.@Mdawini_29