Military Touch Movement artistesShowbiz Reporter LOOKING at the OK Grand Challenge artiste line-up poster, one would not be blamed for mistaking it for a poster of Jah Prayzah s Military Touch Movement (MTM). This is simply because all his artistes ExQ, Tahle, Andy Muridzo, Chiweda, DJ Tamuka and Nutty O are performing at the OK annual shopper s promotion and horseracing event taking place at Borrowdale Racecourse in Harare tomorrow. Killer T is the only non-MTM artiste on the line-up.But interestingly, Killer T is highly affiliated with MTM as he has been working closely with Vusa Blaqs, the man who produces most MTM artistes music videos. Most recently, Blaqs produced MTM s music video for Chekeche as well as Killer T s Bvunza Tinzwe.Initially, months after MTM was formed, most artistes signed under the label felt they were being given a raw deal as they felt they were not benefitting from their close association with their boss music guru Jah Prayzah.But now, the artistes are singing a different song as being signed under MTM is finally bearing fruit. No doubt, the nation is starved of high profile events and the OK Grand Challenge is one of the few which attract hordes of people from all walks of life.Therefore, being selected by a reputable company like OK to perform at this event shows that Jah Prayzah s team has established a strong niche in the music industry.MTM manager, Keen Mushapaidze said it took a lot of hard work to brand MTM artistes in a way that would make them irresistible.On the OK deal, he said they were approached by the retail shop requesting for an MTM packaged performance at the premium horseracing event. Jah Prayzah and ExQ have performed at the OK Grand Challenge before and have wowed people. This laid a foundation for OK Zimbabwe to approach us, said Mushapaidze. Like any other corporate in Zimbabwe, OK Zimbabwe wanted to surprise their customers with the package and we re happy to execute their plan. An advantage that MTM has over other music stables is that it has diverse artistes. MTM got people talking because we produce good music as evidenced by Chekeche a collaboration which featured all the stablemates.The whole crew has something different to offer as Jah Prayzah and Andy specialise in contemporary music, while Ex Q has that urban grooves touch. Tahle is jazzy while DJ Tamuka mixes up a lot of genres and fans will experience that on Saturday, said Mushapaidze.This will be the stable s third performance as a group.