Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent Miss Zimbabwe, the country s top beauty pageant is going for the second year running without it being held and what is of major concern is the organisers deafening silence. Last year Miss Zimbabwe Trust in all its wisdom said the whole country had no beautiful women who could compete in the Miss World pageant. This was after they had been on a whirlwind tour conducting auditions around the country. After the exercise, the organisers concluded the women who had shown interest in participating in the beauty pageant were not good enough hence the decision to cancel the competition.While there is uncertainty in the Miss Zimbabwe camp, it s all systems go for the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe pageant. Today Miss Tourism Zimbabwe organisers will announce the date and details of their finals after the holding of a successful pageant last year where Ashley Morgan was crowned Queen and went to Malaysia for the Miss Tourism World finals where she made it to the top 10.For winning, Morgen was given a prize money of $20 000 and a car. Perhaps to get pointers from others, Miss Zimbabwe Trust chairperson Mary Chiwenga was one of the four judges during the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe pageant.Miss Tourism Zimbabwe has come and gone without a glitch or major scandal while Miss Zimbabwe, the country s flagship pageant, has been riddled with scandals. For Miss Zimbabwe, crowning and dethronements have been the order of the day year in and year out. The nation is now being told that there are no beautiful women in Zimbabwe.Time is running out for whoever is going to be crowned Miss Zimbabwe as Miss World finale is around the corner. Hopefully, if the pageant is held, the winner will have ample time to prepare for the world finals in December.Our neighbouring countries have already chosen their representatives. Zambia has chosenLouisa Josephs Chingangu who was crowned Miss Zambia in December last year giving her a complete year to prepare for the world finale.South Africa crowned Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters Miss SA last March.Miss Zimbabwe Trust spokesperson Tendai Chirau, like last year, assured pageant followers that the once flagship pageant would be held this year. Although I can t tell you the details, all I can say is that Miss Zimbabwe competitions are on this year. We re hard at work finalising one or two things and next week, we ll announce something, said Chirau. There ll be Miss Zimbabwe USA and Miss Zimbabwe UK. The winners of these pageants will come to Zimbabwe to join the local models to vie for the Miss Zimbabwe title, he said.On the models that were subjected to auditions last year Chirau said: The models that went through auditions last year will be given first preference this year. The dates and times of the auditions will be announced in due course. Questioned if there is enough time to prepare the queen for the Miss World finals, Chirau said: Miss World is in December and we ll have ample time to prepare her for the finals. 