Nadia NakaiBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent FOLLOWING the successful airing of the Arthur C Evans Show last year, producers have increased the number of episodes from 13 to 26 for season two of the talk show. This week producers were hard at work shooting season two of the show that airs on DStv s Zambezi Magic, channel 160.Using the Tea Room at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair in Bulawayo for recording the show, this year it features Africa power couple Pokello and Elikem, Cal _Vin, Nadia Nakai and Tehn Diamond.The brains behind the talk show and its presenter Arthur Evans said season two was 26 episodes because some viewers said season one was too short. We ve a bigger team and a better set than last year and also we ve increased the number of episodes from 13 to 26. A lot of the feedback from our viewers was that the show was too short. So by increasing the episodes we wanted to keep it in the minds of people for the show to be a must watch, said Evans. So instead of it being three months long it s now six months long. Evans, a talented presenter who rose to fame after taking part in SABC s Top Billing presenter search, said they wanted to broaden their reach into Africa hence the guests they chose for the talk show. The Arthur C Evans Show is a Pan African show and also our prerogative is to promote local talent and get that local talent to mix it up with talent from Africa. So this year we ve Cal_Vin, Tehn Diamond, and Nadia Nakai that we have done so far. Pokello and Elikem are scheduled to come as well for the show. This is part of the line up and as time goes we shall be telling people who else they should look forward to watching, said Evans.He said they were targeting to air season two by September. DStv will schedule everything for us and once we get a date we ll tell our viewers when to start tuning in, but we re eyeing September. It s an exciting time for us as the show and we re looking forward to dish out season two on Zambezi Magic, said Evans.The first season of the Arthur C Evans Show aired last year on November 5 and ended on January 28.With a #YouACEdit tagline, the show has three segments. In the first one, Evans interviews a guest and in the second, another guest is invited. In the last segment, the two guests are asked questions about topical issues in their careers, with one of them performing on the stage at the end.Followers of the show on social media can visit The Arthur C Evans Show Facebook page, Twitter handle @ACEvansShow and Instagram @Aceevansshow.