Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent A MAN from Mangwe who lost control of a vehicle resulting in an accident that killed one person and injured five others has been fined $400. Nkosikhona Dube (33) of Sosombane Village in Izimnyama Ward was convicted on his own plea of guilty to culpable homicide by Plumtree magistrate, Mr Joshua Mawere.He was ordered to have paid the $400 fine by July 22 or serve four months in prison in case of default. In addition, Dube was sentenced to three months imprisonment which was wholly suspended on condition that he does not within the next five years commit a similar offence.In passing sentence, Mr Mawere lashed out at Dube for being negligent. You had people onboard your vehicle and you should have exercised caution and not negligence like you did. I will be lenient with you and not revoke your driver s licence or prohibit you from driving but let this be a lesson. From here I implore you to drive with due diligence. No punishment can bring back the life that was lost in the accident. The least you can do is to be careful from now onwards, he said.Prosecuting, Mr Elisha Mazorodze said on December 24 last year at around 4PM, Dube was driving a Toyota Ipsum vehicle along an unnamed gravel road from Vaka area to Nxele area with six passengers on board.When he was 300 metres away from Nxele, Dube failed to negotiate a bend and lost control of the vehicle. The vehicle veered off the road and hit a tree before overturning. Five passengers were thrown out of the vehicle among them Langanani Ndlovu. Ndlovu sustained severe injuries and died upon admission at the United Bulawayo Hospitals. A post mortem report that was complied confirmed Ndlovu had died as a result of injuries sustained in the accident, said Mr Mazorodze.He said Dube was negligent as he failed to keep the motor vehicle under proper control, driving at an excessive speed and failing to act reasonably when an accident seemed imminent.In mitigation, Dube said he was not expecting the accident to happen. He apologised to the court saying he had erred. @DubeMatutu.