Retired Colonel Kenneth Mhlophe (left) receives the awardKiyapili Sibanda, Business Reporter NOKEL Security has opened a new branch in Harare as it spreads wings to other markets outside Matabeleland region. Managing director, Retired Colonel Kenneth Mhlophe, said the opening of the new branch in Harare was a sign that the Bulawayo-headquartered security company was growing. We opened a new branch in Harare and we are on an expansion drive to cater for all areas in the country. We are growing as a company and we want to provide security to everyone and that is why we are moving to other regions in the country, he said.Rtd Col Mhlophe said the biggest advantage of opening a new branch in Harare was that the city has a flourishing business, which guarantees their business viability.He told Business Chronicle that the response from clients has so far been good adding the company was surviving despite the economic challenges. The advantage of opening a new branch in Harare is that the industry there is performing well as many companies are still operational. The response we got there has been very good despite economic challenges and we hope to still perform well until year end, said Rtd Mhlophe.He said the new move was a fulfilment of his dream. Meanwhile, the security company has scooped a first runner up award in the recently held Zimbabwe Institute of Management (ZIM) 2016 Southern Region Leadership Excellence Awards. The awards were held under the theme: Business unusual sink or swim .Rtd Col Mhlophe expressed excitement about winning the accolade. We are excited about the award as this shows that our work and services are being recognised by our clients. On top of it competing with a bank under the category implies that we are very much recognised about the services we give to people and we acknowledge it very much, he said.The security firm was the first runner up in the Customer Service Excellence category. Rtd Col Mhlophe formed Nokel Se cu rity Private Limited com pany in 2001 and the com pany pro vides ser vices to mines, manufac tur ing in dus tries, ware house compa nies, banks, property man age ment con sul tants, ho tels, fast food out lets, farms, res i den tial prop er ties and many oth ers. In 2015 Rtd Col Mhlophe es tab lished Lit tle Tip In vest ments, a clean ing ser vices com pany.@Kiyaz_Cool