Ledwin DondoHarare Bureau WITH less than three weeks to go before the Africa Netball Championships begin in Uganda, national team coach Ropafadzo Mutsauki says they are on the right track in their build up to the continental showpiece. The competition runs from June 24 to 30.The team is currently in camp in Harare and have been training at the Stodart Netball Complex under the guidance of Mutsauki and his assistant Lloyd Makunde.Mutsauki said they retained most of the players that competed in the tri-nations tournament in Hong Kong in March including some Under-21 players such as Mercy Mkwadi, Sanele Ncube and Patricia Mauladi to broaden their selection base. Right now we have 18 players and three quarters of the players are the ones that went to Hong Kong. We beefed up with some juniors because there are Under-21s going to the World Youth Cup. So we wanted them to get experience playing with the seniors. It s now two weeks since we got into camp and we still have two more weeks. The fitness level is much better now. We had two players Tatenda Dziva and Paidamoyo Tinoza, who were writing their exams at MSU and they joined camp yesterday (Sunday). But since they are playing in the Super League their fitness is okay and we hope they will catch up soon. There is still time, Mutsauki said.Mutsauki highlighted that their major concern at the moment is the defence. So far there is competition among the players as they want to make the final 12 and making it into the final 12 will be a confidence-booster for the girls. Most of the time we have had an issue with the defence, we do not have the height in Zimbabwe. We will work on elevation skills because usually shooters are tall. We are also looking at interception of the ball, said Mutsauki.Mutsauki was elevated to take charge of the senior side as coach Ledwin Dondo, who has been with the senior team over the years, is not feeling well.He will be in charge of the Under-21 when they make their debut appearance at the World Youth Cup in Botswana next month. It gives me confidence as a coach. It means Zina has seen something good in me, so it boosts the confidence that even when we go for the World Cup I believe we can bring better results because I am getting more experience. I was with the team before as the assistant coach so I don t think there is much difference. But we will have to take each game as it comes, said Mutsauki.Some of the seasoned players in the squad include captain Perpetua Siyachitema, goal shooter Pauline Jani, Felistas Kwangwa and goal attack Paidamoyo Tinoza.Provisional squad: Pauline Jani, Omega Muwanzi, Mercy Mkwadi, Christine Kadandare, Jemina Washeke, Ursla Ncube, Chido Chiwenga, Felistas Kwangwa, Ndaizivei Madzikangawa, Victoria Nkomo, Kudakwashe Muchongwe, Paidamoyo Tinoza, Tatenda Dziva, Patricia Mauladi, Sanele Ncube, Lynette Tanhira, Perpetua Siyachitema, Lynda Nyakotyo.