Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent BOTSWANA authorities have shot dead nine more Zimbabwean cattle that strayed into their country, bringing the total number of animals that have been killed this year to 77. Police recently revealed that by end of April, 68 cattle from Bulilima District had been shot in the neighbouring country.Chief Madlambuzi said nine cattle belonging to five different villagers from Hingwe area which falls under his area of jurisdiction were shot in Botswana on Monday.He said the cattle were recently stolen from the village at night. He said one villager, Mr Nogate Khupe (52) lost five cattle. There are villagers from my area who lost their cattle as they were shot in Botswana. It appears that thieves stole nine cattle from Hingwe Village and they drove them into Botswana through an illegal entry point. The thieves later dumped the cattle in Changete area in Botswana. The cattle were later impounded by the Botswana authorities and they were shot in full view of the owners. One villager lost five cattle and four other villagers lost one beast each, he said.Chief Madlambuzi said it remained a cause for concern that villagers were still losing their cattle as they were a source of livelihood. He said community members within his area of jurisdiction were the most affected as they were situated along the border line.Mr Khupe said five of his cattle were stolen while they were in his kraal. He said he later received information that some stray cattle had been impounded in Botswana.Mr Khupe said he was advised to travel to Botswana to identify his cattle. He said he positively identified the cattle by their branding but they were later shot dead while he watched.Chief Police national anti-stock theft coordinator Senior Assistant Commissioner Erasmus Makodza last month revealed that 68 cattle all valued at $35 000 from Nswazi area in Bulilima District had been shot in Botswana from January to April this year.Botswana authorities recently effected a shoot to kill policy targeted against all cattle that stray into their territory.In return affected villagers are paid P100 for each beast that is shot.Authorities from Botswana say they resorted to the policy because local cattle was affecting their beef exports following reports of foot and mouth disease.@DubeMatutu