Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Ltd I HAVE said it before that we must not give up in life but today I am saying give up on toxic people, toxic situations, toxic environments and toxic clap trap. We cannot grow at all if we kept such toxicity around us. It s just that simple. Do not be emotional about it, let go of everything and anyone toxic as these prevent you from achieving our desired financial freedom goals.Losers Do away with losers in your life. You can t spend time with people that are always complaining every time they open their mouths. How do you grow when you are surrounded by such negativity, which at times can be labelled as laziness? It s a poisoned chalice that you can t drink from. How can you have great dreams when you always swimming in bad vibes constantly? It s like there isn t great in the world. My question is if the world is so bad why do you still keep your sorry self alive? (Disclaimer: not advocating suicide).When do you see opportunities when everything is bad, bad and bad? Why should you be the dust bin of poverty stories, cries of defeat, failed dreams and just all complaints? It will be too much garbage for your bin. Resist it and don t accommodate such people as they bring you down and stunt your growth.You can t expect to grow with such poverty of ideas.Winners This is a refreshing breed that you need to congregate with. You have to be in company with positive people. These people uplift you, they encourage you, and they develop you and challenge you to be a better person. You need some of the inspiration and winners offer that challenge to you for free. It builds strategic minds as all you hear about are opportunities even in adversity. You can t ignore such infectious behaviour and this easily rubs off and you can then try to develop yourself to your maximum potential. Look around and select these people in your circles and start associating yourself with them.The Law of 5 people Your value is the average of the five people you spend most time with so the theorem goes. Take stock and release excess baggage. Look around you and do the math and make informed and crucial decisions. Do not be emotional about it otherwise you are wasting time with such people. You can t be big if you spend time with average people. You can t perform if you spend time with mediocre people with mediocrity as their mantra or middle names.But you will be a winner if you have winners in your midst.In your circles you better not be the weakest link that normalises mediocrity unless you are on an internship program with the other parties. On the lighter side I hope I am not the one bringing the average net worth down in my circle of friends!Mentors Get mentors around you. That way you share their circle of successful people. It s a smart way of reaching out to successful people and that will increase your value.Networking Bring yourself to interact more with the right circles as you prepare yourself to take off on a great financial freedom journey. You have one life thus you need to give it your best shot to avoid future regrets.Successful people Be with people who are successful in their lives in whatever field. Their attitude is the best spirit for a great life and they discuss winning, which is your purpose in life. You were made in the image of God so you are that special so you need to redo resent in every aspect and can learn that from other successful individuals. To a winning life, stay winning and start today dropping off all the baggage of people not helping you attain financial freedom.You will thank me in future.MoB Capital Financial Police We are worried by the big engine cars you are driving. Please give reason why we mustn t arrest and jail you on sight for such an economic tendency. As an empathetic and peace loving police please justify the use of these big cars. Justification is from cost, convenience and the fuel guzzling antics of these given the economic situation.Let s compare affordability and dead capital in these big cars. We warn you to give just cause to this popular trait otherwise we are arresting you on sight without an option of a fine.IF YOU LIVE IN BULAWAYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER. IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY: SOS (SWITCH OFF SWITCHES). IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENTMorris Mpala is managing director MoB Capital (Pvt) Limited, a microfinance institution offering loans, micro-insurance and advisory services to small to medium enterprises as well as individuals.