Gabriel Nyoni holds his motivational bookDanisa Masuku HIGHLANDERS FC striker, Gabriel Nyoni, has penned a motivational book based on his life experiences, taking readers through the challenges he faced in his career and how he overcame them. The 51-page piece of literature entitled, Reposition yourself You Are Outstanding, compels youths and soccer players to ward off all the numerous challenges they face and focus on improving their livelihoods.The book being sold for $5 is available at the Highlanders Club offices in Bulawayo.Nyoni, who graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce Honours Degree in Marketing at the National University of Science and Technology last year, said many people told him it was going to be difficult to pursue studies and a soccer career at once but he proved them wrong. After making a number of mistakes and wrong decisions that nearly affected both my education and football career, I realised I had to change my way of doing things and reposition myself. There re some people who told me that I couldn t pursue both soccer and education. They said I had to drop one, but from that discouragement, I decided to prove them wrong and managed to excel in both, said Nyoni.As a result, the soccer star decided to write a book to inspire others to believe in themselves, follow their dreams and not be discouraged no matter the circumstance. There re youths who after having failed academically, give up and start to engage in a number of vices such as taking alcohol and drugs as a way of escaping from their troubles. They remain in that comfort zone and time will be ticking and they ll be getting old without having achieved anything but dining in the shadow of illicit drugs. These are some of the issues I tackle in the book, he said.Nyoni said failure by youths to enhance their livelihood by taking up a plethora of opportunities has been their downfall. Fear retards progress as it makes one fail to do things which he or she is capable of doing therefore one becomes an average person. Some fail to be who they aspire to be because they ve let fear dominate their thoughts. Marshal Chiza, motivational speaker and author of Success In No Time urged other soccer stars to emulate Nyoni. I m excited that Gabriel has decided to be an outstanding individual, balancing two things at once. It s a norm that a soccer player is always busy training, but as for him, he has moved out of that comfort zone and done something exceptionally well. I strongly believe that by virtue of him penning this sumptuous delicacy for the mind, he has also taught other soccer players not to be cocooned in one box (football), but rather do other things that will benefit them, said Chiza.He also urged people from all walks of life to take time to read the book. Success is something almost everyone wants and many spend a lifetime hoping for. No matter where you are in your life, stop and read this magnificent book by Gabriel Nyoni. This is not only an amazing book that ll give you the guide to exceptional achievement, but is in itself proof that the principles work, said Chiza.