Ronald ChitiyoChipo Sabeta in Sfax, Tunisia DIMUNITIVE Caps United midfielder Ronald Rooney Chitiyo has demanded character from his teammates when they face Al Ahli Tripoli in a Caf Champions League group stage encounter at the Stade Tai eb Mhiri in Sfax tonight (11PM Zim time). Makepekepe suffered a horrific 2-4 mauling by the Libyan champions at the National Sport Stadium about a fortnight ago, but Chitiyo said it was about time they won under difficult conditions on the continent.The Libyans play all their home matches in neighbouring Tunisia due to volatility in their native country.Caps last trip to Egypt for the Group B opener against Zamalek was doomed, as they were beaten 2-0, but Chitiyo said they have to change things now.Chitiyo, who banged in both goals when they beat USM Alger of Algeria 2-1 in Harare, believes they have what it takes and need to stamp their authority against big teams even under difficult conditions. There will be difficult places in Africa where we should go and prove that we have character by being on top of our game, said Chitiyo. The players are all geared up for a good game and win above all. We have to show character. We saw that they are a good team and we have to be better than them to win. This is the time to prove that we are a good team. A good team beats the best opponent and we have to do so. The 4-2 defeat dampened Caps quarter-final hopes, but Chitiyo remains optimistic that the tables can still be turned.Preparations for the first leg were hampered by injuries to key players that saw Jorum Muchambo replacing the big Edmore Sibanda between the sticks.They had a slow start to the match that saw defender Justice Jangano s ill-timed tackle resulting in Al Ahli getting a penalty that Sameh Derbali converted in the 16th minute.The Libyan champions also capitalised on Caps poor defending and errors to increase their lead through a Salem Ablo brace before the breather.Derbali was again on target for Al-Ahli s fourth goal, but there was some late drama with Caps left-back Ronald Pfumbidzai pulling one back from the penalty spot before skipper Hardlife Zvirekwi headed home a second. It, however, proved late as the Libyans held on for victory.Chitiyo said they don t want to be in that situation again here. It s regrettable. Everything was not just right on that day. We can t blame anyone, but we have to do the right thing. We have to be organised and do the best for ourselves. What we don t want is to repeat those mistakes. They managed to score goals in Harare, so we can score here as well, it s possible. Like I said, we have to believe in ourselves, Chitiyo said.He believes playing at a neutral venue will allow them to play without pressure. I thinks it s an advantage, but the whole work has to be done in 90 minutes. We are happy that there won t be too much intimidation from the fans, but we are still strong to face such challenges. We are not at this stage by mistake. I am not paying attention to such things as the absence of their fans, but on what we are going to deliver. 