Graeme CremerWHILE all the attention wags around the wonders of the Champions Trophy, Scotland and Zimbabwe have a window open to get a taste of some ODI breeze. Thanks to the ICC, a two-match ODI series beckons today. Zimbabwe last played an ODI in February, and Scotland in January. Both these sides may not have the luxury of playing against top teams more often, but with ODI cricket finding wings to match the flair of T20 cricket, it won t be a bad idea to catch-up. Although rankings have become a parameter for the global events, Scotland and Zimbabwe will know that the only way to stay in the reckoning is by winning games.While Zimbabwe cricket are finding ways to swim out of the financial crisis, Scotland are more than happy to be hosting a full-member ODI nation. At the end of it all, cricket is being played.Zimbabwe, under Graeme Cremer, have managed to find some potential talents, but the results haven t quite gone their way in the past 18 months. They would be eager to stabilise things with the mix of youth and experience. Solomon Mire, Hamilton Masakadza, Craig Ervine and Sikandar Raza all of them have more than a thing or two to prove.There have been signs of improvement, but they found it hard to brush the inconsistency rust out of their system. Zimbabwe are also set to play Sri Lanka and Netherlands soon after this series ends. So, they would be hoping to hit the ground running.Scotland are coming into this series on the back of a defeat against Namibia in the ICC World Cricket League Championship. One good thing, however, is that their key batsmen Kyle Coetzer and Richie Berrington have been in good nick, both slamming a hundred each against Namibia a few days ago.If there s one area they would like to work, it would be their bowling which has gone through fair amount of transformation in the past two years. In home conditions, they would surely like to exploit the advantages on offer and give Zimbabwe a run for their money. It may not have the riches of a global event, but Scotland fans will be overjoyed to see their side host an ODI series.Weather There is a high chance of rain playing hide-and-seek during the course of the game with the temperature set to remain around 15 degrees throughout, teams would ideally look to chase.Quotes: Securing home international matches against a Full Member Nation is something we have all worked tirelessly on over the past 18 months, so I am delighted we have managed to make these matches a reality, Cricket Scotland CEO Malcolm Cannon said. While the tour will give our boys the much-needed game time and a feel of unfamiliar conditions, it will also go a long way in preparing our team for the tougher series away to Sri Lanka, Wilfred Mukondiwa, the Zimbabwe Cricket managing director, said.Did you know? The only time Zimbabwe played against Scotland was back in 2016 in the World T20 where Zimbabwe won by 11 runs.Likely XIs Zimbabwe: Peter Moor, Solomon Mire, Tarisai Musakanda, Craig Ervine, Sean Williams, Ryan Burl/Sikandar Raza, Malcolm Waller, Graeme Cremer (c), Tendai Chatara, Chris MpofuScotland: Matthew Cross (wk), Kyle Coetzer (c), Calum MacLeod, Richie Berrington, Preston Mommsen, Con de Lange, Craig Wallace, Safyaan Sharif, Mark Watt, Alasdair Evans, Chris Sole Cricbuzz