Teenage HadebeRicky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter NATIONAL team and Chicken Inn defender Teenage Hadebe is excited about his move to South African Absa Premiership giants Kaizer Chiefs where he has reportedly signed a four-year deal. An upbeat Hadebe (pictured right), who turns 22 in September, arrived in Johannesburg yesterday. I m in South Africa right now. Training starts next week and I m looking forward to the new challenge, Hadebe told Chronicle Sport.The tall defender declined to go into details of his deal, although media reports say he has signed a four-year deal.The left-footed defender, who can play in central defence or at left-back, impressed Chiefs coach Steve Kompela in last August s trials.Chiefs have been following the player s performances and a fortnight ago asked Chicken Inn to stop using the defender. Hadebe s last game for the former champions was on June 14, when Chicken Inn beat ZPC Kariba 2-0.Hadebe joins countrymen Willard Katsande and Edmore Chirambadare at the South African glamour side.He will likely take up the slot left by Mitchelle Katsvairo, who was offloaded at the end of his first year of a three-year contract.Chicken Inn are confident Hadebe, a former Bantu Rovers and Highlanders player, will scale heights in South Africa. We wish him well and have no doubt he is going to have a successful career. He is young, well-disciplined both on and off the field and is also a hard worker.He has shown his pedigree both at club and national level. We have told him to be patient, learn, work hard, be disciplined and give everything to his work, said Chicken Inn secretary-general Tawengwa Hara.On the details of Hadebe s move, Hara referred inquiries to the player s manager Gibson Mahachi, who was not available on his mobile. Mahachi also facilitated Katsvairo and Chirambadare s deals.Chiefs were evasive on the player s move, with club spokesperson Vina Maphosa saying they are in their off-season. We are still on off-season. As for the upcoming season, if there are any new developments or players, the announcements will be made in due course, Maphosa said.Chiefs beat Ajax Cape Town and continental giants Mamelodi Sundowns, who were reportedly also following Hadebe.@ZililoR