Madlela S khobokhoboLeonard Ncube in Victoria Falls MAN of the moment Mothusi Bashimane Ndlovu, popularly known as Madlela Skhobokhobo, attracted a full house on his maiden visit to Victoria Falls on Saturday night. The stage could have provided him with an opportunity to endear himself to the resort town s fans ahead of the launch of his second album which he said is due in September. The Ngamnanka USaMamoe hit maker played the trademark hit as well as two others Bheyapeya, a single set for release next month and Golide Highlander in a space of three hours at KoMpofu La Bar, leaving a fully packed house asking for more.Fans jostled to get to the stage to dance with the Gwanda-born rising artiste, whose trademark dance and axe are a crowd attraction.Leaving the stage after 1AM, Madlela, who did not have his full band crew, said the Victoria Falls show was only meant to meet fans ahead of a big family show likely to be staged at Chinotimba Stadium at the end of July. I m very much satisfied with the crowd although it excludes women and children. This time around we just came to meet fans and we are planning something big for next time with a full band. We are thinking of doing it during the day so that we accommodate children and women, he said.Madlela said he is riding on the high demand for his music in South Africa and locally, where he has been nominated for awards in Bulawayo. People are crazy everywhere and we are humbled by the way they welcome us. You may be aware that people from Matabeleland are hard to please but so far we are indebted to their support. We will be releasing a single Bheyapeya this month end in preparation for an album launch in September or October. At the moment we are engaging the Bulawayo City Council about the venue, he said adding that the album will include Zimbabwe Rhumba and other genres.Besides one album, Madlela has recorded three short films currently showing on local TV.He said next week he will be playing in South Africa before heading back home where he has two shows lined up ahead of the awards in Bulawayo.Last week he played alongside Clement Magwaza at Gwanda District Hall following another successful show at Badala Business Centre in Inyathi.The promoter of the show, Vincent Makamure, who runs KoMpofu La, said they were planning a partnership with Madlela. This is a township night club and when I heard about this guy we thought we should bring him so he meets fans as we plan bigger things. He came with a few band members and now that we have seen the response we are planning something bigger for him and the entire group probably at Chinotimba Stadium as we plan to partner him and market the resort town, said Makamure.Madlela was with Noble (Sibande) Charlie Nxumalo, Nompulelo Ncube, Sibongiseni Dube, Susan Nyabuwa and were joined by locally based Leticia Nyasulu. @ncubeleon.