Charles MhlauriSikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter FORMER Caps United coach Charles Mhlauri said the Green Machine should not despair despite their shock Group B Caf Champions League home loss to Ahl Ahli Tripoli of Libya on June 2. The US-based Mhlauri also believes Caps chances of progressing to the knockout stages of the tournament are still alive.Caps were shocked 2-4 by the Libyans, who cruised to a 3-0 lead inside the first 30 minutes at the National Sports Stadium in a match which coach Lloyd Chitembwe s men were expected to easily win.The loss saw Caps United dropping to the bottom of the Group B with three points from their impressive 2-0 win over Algerian giants USM Alger in Harare. All four teams in the group have each won one game.Caps take on the Libyans in Tunisia on June 21 seeking nothing less than victory to remain in contention to progress to the next round.Mhlauri said playing away from home was never an easy assignment for any side. The fact is any team can lose a game at home. Playing away from home is not easy, but I have confidence that they are going to compete well. They have equal chances like all teams in their group and being at this level speaks volumes about their pedigree, said Mhlauri, who led Caps to two back-to-back league titles in 2004 and 2005.He said Champions League group matches are naturally tough, but Caps United must avoid putting themselves under unnecessary pressure lest they miss out on the bigger picture. Champions League at group stage is tough. I believe if we focus too much on results there is a danger of ending up missing on the bigger picture, that is, the process, competition and experience. I just want to see them compete well. I am confident they will do that; results will take care of themselves. The rest of the puzzles will fall in place. Win, lose or draw, as long as they give it their all, to me they will be winners, he said.Mhlauri, who is director of coaching at Kimball Union Academy, a private boarding school in New Hampshire in the United States, expressed confidence in his former player Chitembwe to lead the Green Machine s charge to continental glory where he failed on two occasions. I am confident Lloyd is making the right decisions based on what he has at his disposal, said Mhlauri.