Econet Group CEO Douglas MboweniKiyapili Sibanda, Business Reporter ECONET Wireless has expanded its Ruzivo Smart Learning to secondary schools by allowing Ordinary Level pupils to access lessons via mobile phones for free. The latest development will see Forms 3 and 4 pupils being able to access quality, convenient and affordable education via their mobile phones, tablets, laptops or any internet connected devices.The Ruzivo service will offer six subjects Mathematics, Geography, Integrated Science, English, Shona and Ndebele, said Econet.The facility is a revolutionary online interactive digital learning platform with locally developed academic content including interactive lessons, exercises and tests. Access to the Ruzivo content is free, with no subscription fees or internet charges to access the learning materials using an Econet line.Econet Wireless chief executive officer Mr Douglas Mboweni said education remains key to success at individual and national levels. He added that Econet s objective was to give scholars the opportunity to enhance their learning through the use of technology. Education remains key not only to success at individual level but to our country at large. Our objective with Ruzivo is to give scholars an opportunity to enhance their formal learning experience through the use of technology. We believe in technology as a solution to transforming people s lives. This also complements the Government s efforts towards the attainment of Sustainable Development Goal 4 of Quality Education, he said. The addition of O level Mathematics, Geography, Integrated Science, English, Shona and Ndebele content is not an end in itself but a process, which will see us adding more subjects in future. We remain committed to enhancing the classroom experience for all pupils in every corner of our country. Importantly, we are cognisant that success of Ruzivo hinges on wide, fast and reliable internet access across the whole country. We have the widest LTE and fibre coverage and will continue to invest more in infrastructure in that regard. According to statistics from the Zimbabwe School Examinations Council, a total of 155 492 wrote five or more subjects in 2016 with 46 587 obtaining Grade C or better in five or more subjects, translating to a 29.96 percent pass rate.Meanwhile, earlier this year Ruzivo completed addition of content for primary school level including Ndebele and Shona.@Kiyaz_Cool