Lenox Lizwi MhlangaI WROTE this in 2014 and I feel I have to share it again to make a point. The issues that were examined then still hold today. So read it with the benefit of hindsight, yet keeping your feet firmly planted in the present. A story that is now beerhall legend is told of a game the Zimbabwe national soccer team played with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It was during an outbreak of the deadly Ebola disease and a number of players opted out of the team.It was then decided that instead of forfeiting the game for which the Warriors would have been heavily fined, the team be flown in on the day of the game and out again.Among the players who threw all caution to the wind to play in Kinshasa was the late Mercedes Rambo Sibanda. The enticements offered were just too good to ignore. On their return to Harare International Airport, an ambulant Rambo, evidently showing no signs of the haemorrhagic fever, was asked why he took the risk. Would I have gone there if we didn t have any intensives? No! was his classic response.Of course he meant incentives. Which brings me to the debate that is raging at the moment on teachers intensives, sorry, incentives.It all began when rumours started flying that the then newly appointed Minister Lazarus Dokora, of the reconstituted primary and secondary ministry was mulling scrapping teachers paid by schools development associations.The unions weighed in arguing that the government should come up with a permanent solution by improving salaries instead.Granted that the incentives were allowed through the realisation that government was unable to deliver when it came to improved conditions of service, it became apparent that only a fraction of the schools could afford to pay the incentives.Unions were also arguing that incentives were fuelling corruption among school heads and left rural schools in the cold.Let me say at the outset that there is nothing patently wrong with the School Development Councils in consultation with its members who are the parents to decide on a levy to cover an incentive that will motivate teachers to perform at their best.It s an agreement between parents and the school to fill a yawning gap that government has failed to fill.I was a teacher for more than 12 years and at no point in my career did I profess to being happy with my salary. At the time I wrote an article lamenting the profession as a thankless job given the fact that we shaped the hearts and minds of countless young citizens who later became productive in life.The irony is that teachers remained with nothing to show for their hard work, at times being the laughing stock of the same pupils they taught when they rose up the ranks in whatever vocation they chose. Even President Mugabe, a former teacher himself, once lamented low teacher s salaries.It is a fact that it is the incentives that have kept most urban teachers in the system. Removing them would be a disaster given the fact that government in general and the public service in particular have failed to address the issue of giving the teachers a living salary. Public pronouncements have failed to move from fiction to reality.It is therefore sad to see unions that are struggling to find relevance pontificating about incentives causing distorted growth in the education sector. If parents are fine with using the little financial muscle they have to invest in their children s education, then who are they to deny then that right?They should use other methods to induce government to take up their responsibility and invest in rehabilitating rural schools.Please do not equate incentives with privatisation of schools. Those are two different issues. If the responsible authorities came to the party and fulfilled their mandate of ensuring better salaries and conditions of service, then we wouldn t be having this debate.If parents are fine with forking out a bit more to retain good teachers within schools like they have been doing in the elite institutions from time immemorial, then let them be. If the government is content with making promise after promise but with no solution in sight, then that is where the unions should step in.Unions are under pressure to justify the subscriptions that are deducted from their members salaries. They should clearly be part of the solution and not part of the problem. If the drive for the removal of incentives does gather pace and is subsequently implemented, then we are sure to witness an exodus of teachers heading for greener pastures.