President Mugabe and Commander in Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces yesterday presented a prize to the second best officer cadet Nyasha Kajau during the commissioning parade of officer cadets at the Zimbabwe Military Academy in Gweru. Looking on is the Commander Zimbabwe National Army Lt. Gen. Philip Valerio Sibanda.(Picture by Eliah Saushoma)Patrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief PRESIDENT Mugabe yesterday commissioned 136 junior officers among them 29 females at the Zimbabwe Military Academy (ZMA) in Gweru. The graduation and pass-out parade of Regular Officer Cadet Course 3-33-15 is the 33rd to be held at ZMA since independence. President Mugabe also presented the second and last phase of Unit Colours to five army establishments namely the ZMA, Zimbabwe School of Infantry, All Arms Battle School, Recruit Training Depot and One Air Defence Regiment.The presentation by the President of the Unit Colours follows a similar event done during the Zimbabwe Defence Forces day celebrations in Harare last year when he awarded Unit Colours to all formations including units under their command as well as independent units and regiments.President Mugabe who is the Head of State and Government and Commander in Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces hailed the cordial relationship between Zimbabwe and the Republic of Namibia which he said enhances peace in Sadc. In light of our cordial relationship with the Republic of Namibia, the ZMA has for the past seven intakes, enrolled a number of Namibia s cadets to train simultaneously with our own cadets. This cooperation between defence forces enhances security in our two countries and the Sadc region. Regular OfficerCadet Course 3-33-15 is the 33rd Course to be run at this academy since the attainment of our Independence and the seventh to enrol members of the Namibia Defence Forces, he said.President Mugabe said the enrolment of more females should be applauded as it dovetails with the national policy on gender equity which seeks to promote the advancement of women. Allow me to commend the resilience of 29 women officer cadets among the graduands who withstood the immense pressure associated with the officer cadet training. Their participation in this course bolsters Government s efforts to achieve its target of gender equality in all spheres of the operation. I urge other young women to join the so-called male dominated careers. There is no doubt that the special 29 endured the course curriculum which was physically and psychologically taxing, said the President.President Mugabe said the completion of the 21 months training programme indicates the ZMA s continued commitment to its mandate of identifying and moulding young Zimbabwe nationals into competent and professional junior officers.Of the 167 officer cadets who enrolled for the course on September 1 in 2015, President Mugabe said 136 cadets, 29 of them women, were commissioned.He also commended ZMA for living up to its mandate of identifying, training and educating officers who, over time become the country s future military leaders. Thirty one fell by the way side after failing to endure the rigorous demands of cadet training. Sadly Officer Cadets Witness Simbarashe Mazibiye and Tapiwa Kelvin Ndoro on this course perished in a road traffic accident while returning from one of the routine course breaks. May their families, relatives, friends and colleagues find solace in the knowledge that we share their grief. May their dear souls rest in eternal peace, he said.The 21 months of intensive and comprehensive military training comprised three phases. The first one covered basic soldiering skills which involved skill at arms, drill, field craft, map reading and communication while phase two focused on conventional warfare, leadership and command and control, phase three covered low intensity operations training.Said the President: As an integral part of the training, Regular Officer Cadet Course 3-33-15 Military Relations Package had students make an educational tour to the Freedom Camp Shrine in Zambia. This strategic visit exposed the officer cadets to among other things have an in-depth knowledge of the brutality that characterised the struggle for independence. They were afforded an opportunity to appreciate the challenges and sacrifices made by freedom fighters, some of whom paid the supreme sacrifice with their lives while others were permanently maimed and remain traumatised. He said the collaboration between ZMA and Midlands State University enabled the graduands to study for a national diploma in Military Training and Education.The President congratulated ZDF which has had the National Defence University Charter gazetted by Government in March this year &#8211; a development he said would soon see ZMA becoming an affiliate of the National Defence University.On the Unit Colours for the five army establishments he said: I urge all units and formations to jealously safeguard their colours and to always ensure that all new members posted to the units are familiar with the meaning and history of the Unit Colours. Also present at the graduation ceremony were Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, Defence Minister Dr Sydney Sekeramayi, Commander Defence Forces General Constantino Chiwenga and senior government officials.@pchitumba1