Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter A 28-YEAR-OLD man from Bulawayo was arrested after claiming to be a famous journalist from The Chronicle, in a bid to avoid paying a $10 taxi fare. Nkosi Ndebele of Emakhandeni suburb allegedly went on to steal the taxi driver s cellphone at Luveve Police Station where the driver had taken him to.Mr Mandla Emanuel Ndebele, the driver, said Nkosi told him on Saturday night that he was the well-known Chronicle reporter, Nqobile Tshili. He allegedly threatened to write a negative story that he said would destroy the driver and expose his scandals if he did not give him a free ride home. He asked me to take him to Emakhandeni suburb at around 11PM from a night club in the city centre. I charged him $10. He told me that he did not have the money on his person but would pay upon arrival at his house, said Mr Ndebele. When we got to his home, he refused to give me my money and started telling me that he was the famous Bulawayo journalist, Nqobile Tshili. He said he could make my life a living hell if I pestered him for my money, said Mr Ndebele.Nkosi, apparently unaware that journalists cannot just write negatively about someone out of spite without evidence, is said to have warmed up to his theme saying he had relatives in high places that could run the taxi driver out of town. He told me that he had relatives in high places and that his uncle was a high ranking police officer in Harare, said Mr Ndebele.He said he started fearing for his life as Nkosi took him from one place to another, promising to get money from friends during the night. I started getting scared. I thought maybe he was working with a group of thugs and they were planning to rob me. It was after midnight then. I decided to drive to Luveve Police station. Nkosi allegedly stole Mr Ndebele s cell phone that was in the car, outside the charge office. I realised that my phone had been stolen. The police searched him and found it in his possession and told me to file a report for theft. He apologised and I forgave him for the phone. They fined him $20 for being a nuisance and refusing to pay my money. They also instructed him to pay me my $10. Mr Ndebele said Nkosi spent a night in police cells and was released on Sunday.Bulawayo police spokesperson Inspector Precious Simango said: It is a criminal offence to impersonate someone and the public should desist from such acts as they risk getting arrested. Those found impersonating will be dealt with accordingly. @andile_tshuma