Armed robbers Christopher Chamisa and his teenage aide Richard Muponde, Gwanda Correspondent. A SELF-proclaimed prophet and his aide who robbed two shops at Jalukange Business Centre in Beitbridge two weeks ago after firing 25 bullets, shooting two people leading to the death of one of them, have been jailed. The prophet was jailed for an effective 26 years while his aide was jailed for an effective 12 years for armed robbery and illegal possession of a firearm by Gwanda regional magistrate, Mr Mark Dzira.The prophet, Christopher Chamisa (26) of Village 4 Munyamani, Chief Maranda in Mwenezi and his 17-year-old aide were also remanded in custody to June 15 on murder charges when they appeared before Gwanda magistrate, Ms Nomagugu Ncube.The pair escaped with cash amounting to $184 and over R12 000 after committing the armed robbery. Cash amounting to $184 and R2 300 was recovered.Chamisa and his aide, who is his nephew, were convicted on their own pleas of guilty by Mr Dzira.Chamisa was sentenced to an effective 26 year jail term. His aide was sentenced to 18 years in prison, but six years were suspended for five years on condition of good behaviour.Asked by Mr Dzira why they committed the offence, the two said they wanted a lot of money to lead better lives. Accused one you said you earn $30 to $40 a day, which is a lot of money because if you calculate it, it translates to about $900 a month. Why then did you commit this offence? asked Mr Dzira. Your Worship we wanted a lot of money to lead better lives. That s the reason why we committed this offence, said the prophet.Sentencing them, the magistrate noted that the offence they committed was very prevalent. The courts should send a clear message to society that they don t condone such behaviour. Cases of armed robbery are prevalent and a stern message should be sent to would be offenders, said the magistrate.Prosecutor, Mr Mncedisi Dube said on May 27 at around 5PM, the pair went to Jakulange general dealer and found the complainant who is the storekeeper at the store, Ms Sibusisiwe Moyo, attending to a customer, Mr Thulani Ndlovu.They were armed with an AK 47 rifle and Chamisa stood at the door demanding cash.Mr Ndlovu asked Chamisa if he was joking but he fired two shots and missed him.Mr Ndlovu jumped over and joined Ms Moyo behind the counter.The prophet s aide went to the counter where Mr Ndlovu was hiding and demanded cash. Fearing for his life, Mr Ndlovu surrendered some money which was in a plastic bag.Chamisa and his aide left the shop after indiscriminately firing from the veranda.From there, they stormed Jalukange Special bar at the same building and confronted, Ms Perseculiar Singo who was with Mr Dion Muleya.They shot Mr Muleya in the abdomen while demanding cash from Ms Singo.Ms Singo tried to escape through the back door but Chamisa fired one shot that hit her in the back but she managed to flee. They ransacked the bar and escaped with some moneyMs Singo was admitted to Beitbridge Hospital while Mr Muleya, who was in a critical condition, was referred to the United Bulawayo Hospitals where he died last week. Chamisa and his accomplice were arrested two days later.The firearm was recovered in a disused well about 500 metres from a homestead they were living at.They indicated that they had picked up the firearm in a cave at a mountain in Maranda in Mwenezi.Mr Moses Gondongwe appeared for the State.@richardmuponde