Kiyapili Sibanda, Business Reporter BUSINESSES have been urged to embrace digital platforms to increase their visibility and market share in line with global trends. Speaking on the sidelines of the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce Matabeleland Annual Business Awards (MABAs) held on Friday in Bulawayo, DHL Express Zimbabwe managing director Mr Jeff Phiri said businesses who resist the digital revolution risk being extinct because customers have shifted from the way they conduct business. If businesses do not embrace digital platforms they will die or perish because the trend has shifted. The customers are always on their phones, laptops and tablets, he said.The awards were held under the theme: Consolidating The New Normal Economy Through Policy Reforms .Mr Phiri told Business Chronicle that some of the failures experienced by businesses were a result of slow adoption of digital platforms, which is the new normal.He said he was disappointed that even big organisations like ZNCC have not adopted the digital platforms in enhancing their operations. I was telling ZNCC that we should have been tweeting about these awards. There was nothing and I told them that I was very disappointed. In 2017 a successful or aspiring, successful business organisation like them has to embrace digital social media platforms or else they will lose customers, said Mr Phiri.He stressed the importance of electronic commerce where customers buy online using their computers and smart phones. People are shopping in the comfort of their homes using their laptops and smart phones. If you still believe in brick and mortar you will remain brick and mortar while other businesses are making money through social media, digital strategy and embracing ICTs. If businesses do not embrace these platforms definitely they will suffer, said Mr Phiri.He also said that for the country s economy to revive it was important to adopt the dual education system where formal education and entrepreneurial skills are merged. This system is what the Jewish and Indians do. The children after school they go and learn the business aspects. Let us say, for example, if the father is a carpenter, when they come from school they go to the factory and learn the business aspect of doing things at a tender age, said Mr Phiri.He said that for businesses to prosper it was important to have knowledge transfer as this would help to build capacity for business to be able to export.Meanwhile, Mr Phiri applauded the Bulawayo business community who came in numbers to support the awards saying this would go a long way in developing confidence in the city.@Kiyaz_Cool