Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent A PLUMTREE magistrate has ordered an investigation into claims that police officers based at Khame Base in Bulilima District assaulted an attempted murder suspect and forced him to admit to the crime. The suspect, Bongani Ndiweni (22) of Khame area told magistrate, Mr Joshua Mawere, that several police officers pounced on him in a bid to force him to admit to stabbing his neighbour twice, leaving him seriously injured.Ndiweni said in a bid to escape from the assault, he fled from the police but was later apprehended. Several police officers from Khame area beat me up and forced me to admit to attempted murder charges. I sustained injuries on the head, shoulder and legs as a result of the assault. I later tried to escape from the police in order to escape further assault but I was apprehended. They were forcing me to admit to committing an offence that I didn t know of, he said.Mr Mawere ordered the prosecutor to ensure that investigations into the matter are carried out.Ndiweni was not asked to plead when he appeared before Mr Mawere facing attempted murder and escape from lawful custody charges.The magistrate remanded him in custody to July 6. The State will conduct investigations on the assault allegations and present a report before the court, he said.Prosecuting, Mr Elisha Mazorodze said Ndiweni stabbed his neighbour, Mr Brian Moyo, sometime in March and then fled to Bulawayo. He said Ndiweni was later arrested on June 20. On 20 June Ndiweni was taken to Khame Police Base around 6PM after he was arrested for attempted murder. Whilst he was in custody he tried to escape with handcuffs on him but police officers pursued and arrested him. Sometime in March Ndiweni had an altercation with his neighbour, Mr Brian Moyo and stabbed him once on the shoulder and chest. After committing the offence, Ndlovu fled to Bulawayo, he said.Mr Mazorodze said Mr Moyo sustained severe injuries on the chest as a result of the attack.@DubeMatutu