The damaged bridge over Nkankezi River in FilabusiAndile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter THE Civil Protection Unit (CPU) has embarked on a programme to assess the damage caused by floods across the country during the last rainy season and come up with measures to reduce the impact of similar disasters in future. Speaking at a workshop for Matabeleland North districts held yesterday in Bulawayo, CPU Deputy Director Mrs Sibusisiwe Ndlovu said they were assessing the damage that was caused by floods across the country and identifying priority areas for emergency intervention. The damage caused by floods during the last rainy season was generally catastrophic in some parts of the country. We are therefore trying to assess the damage to avoid finding ourselves in the very same situation should disaster strike again, she said. We are holding a workshop today for Matabeleland North Province and we are meeting the provincial administrator and district administrators so that we get to have a detailed report of what transpired in every district. We would then be in a position to act in a manner that would suit each district as the problems caused by heavy rains manifested differently from one area to the other. She said an action plan would be put in place after consultations and assessments have been done.Mrs Ndlovu said the CPU would come up with a clear budget of how much money would be needed to rehabilitate damaged infrastructure. We are here today because we need to consolidate and verify all the information and data with regards to damage to people and infrastructure. Damage due to rains, wind, lightning and other associated elements needs to be assessed, she said. We will then come up with a priority action plan in place. At the end of it all we want to bring any lessons that we can gain so that we improve, in case we face a similar situation in future. Mrs Ndlovu said the assessment was important because some of the information they have was gathered hurriedly during the state of emergency as the CPU was trying to assist people.She said now that the dust has settled, all districts across the country will benefit after the needs assessment exercise is completed. It is crucial to ensure that information on disaster risk management is available to all, and it is even more important to invest in disaster risk management education, to help avoid and deal with disasters, she said.Matabeleland North Provincial Administrator Ms Lathiso Dlamini and District Administrators for Umguza, Tsholotsho, Lupane, Nkayi, Binga and Bubi Districts attended the workshop.@andile_tshuma