Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Ltd TODAY we take time to answer some of the questions we are getting from SMEs all over the world. Keep them coming and we will keep it simple and very stupid as we strive to build businesses that are future empires for the next generation to cherish. Call me Dr Mr Brown , the financial doctor and come into my consultation room. How bad is Zimra? (Nkulumane 12) Zimra isn t as bad as what people would like us to believe. Think of Zimra like this &#8211; penalties are charged to people violating rules and paying taxes is a price for doing well. That is why it s called filing for taxes not paying for taxes. You only pay where you are supposed to pay because you will have made some money. There is a need to understand your business and what are your requirements at law. If all things are done well there is no need to complain about Zimra besides their rate of taxing, which becomes a policy issue than an individual operational issue. See a tax consultant to understand more and get informed on the type of business account to operate under which suits your small business.Where do I get funding for my small kapenta business? (Binga) Start with your savings, friends, relatives or crowd funding. Then move to Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) then your bank. You can as well look for partners in your business whether as active partners or silent partners to help with the funding of your business.Increase your integrity to attract funding on your business. Your funding could be through debt or equity (stake in business). Equity could be temporary or a permanent arrangement to suit your respective circumstances. At times why own the whole ant when you can own part of an elephant.Once again thank you for these questions and keep these questions coming to aid financial freedom and continue learning better efficient and effective ways of doing business. Don t forget your gift for your questions from MoB Capital offices for the above selected questions.As SMEs pleaseExplore.Dream.Discover. Financial Freedom MoB Capital s Financial PoliceAs a non-conventional Microfinance Institution (MFI) we have assumed an imaginary financial police role to do and deal with SMEs or individuals commercial/economic shenanigans.This is where we condemn some practices, attitudes or cultures of doing financial activities or business. You can hypothetically be warned, fined or be jailed depending on the gravity of the case. We are the imaginary police (financial) that uphold financial law and order in the areas of business. To avoid such actions being taken against you, seek advice from MoB Capital hassle free.MoB Capital s CIOs (commercial intelligence officers) and CIDs (commercial investigating details) will be collecting and collating data on all commercial vices that compromises SMEs integrity and territorial dominance. On the ground we have FBIs (Financial Business Interns) doing intense investigations to weed out such tendencies by bringing them out to the fore. In MoB Capital s imaginary commercial court Judge Dr Mr Brown will be presiding over all cases. Financial matters can be boring but we are trying to make them more exciting and make more people to be interested in financial literacy in a comical analogue to increase financial freedom starting from a household level. We hope it would not leave people more confused in trying to simplify financial matters for the community.Please be advised ignorance will not be a defence in financial matters violation. And we will fight these unscholarly and moronic economic tendencies without fear nor favour so that we achieve our community goals on financial freedom. We will not be deterred.Already we are issuing a warning to those businesses that are reading about economics as this is suicidal. Please be warned if you do not get advice or knowledge you will die. It s read or die!! Repeat offenders will be dealt with accordingly after this warning.Together let s Explore.Dream.Discover Financial FreedomIF YOU LIVE IN BYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY: SOS (SWITCH OFF SWITCHES) IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENTMorris Mpala is managing director MoB Capital (Pvt) Limited, a microfinance institution offering loans, micro-insurance and advisory services to small to medium enterprises as well as individuals.