Taurai MangwiroAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter TRIANGLE FC coach, Taurayi Mangwiro, believes serious decisions need to be made in his team if they are to boost their chances of clinching the 2017 Castle Lager Premier Soccer League championship. The Chiredzi-based side is 12th on the league table with 12 points, just eight points above table anchors Tsholotsho FC.Triangle has only managed two wins from 12 games, beating Bulawayo City 2-1 on Match Day Six and How Mine 2-0 on Match Day Nine.Mangwiro said although they fell 0-2 to Highlanders, they are not pressing any panic buttons yet, but important decisions concerning his squad need to be made. It s not the kind of start that we had anticipated where we find ourselves near the bottom. We therefore need to make very important decisions going forward in as far as personnel is concerned. There is every reason to be hoppefull we would improve given the fact that when I joined the team I lost a lot of weeks as I was still at Zifa running a course. In terms of the of the squad itself, it s so unfortunate that as the season progresses you get to realise one or two things that perhaps you could have picked up in pre-season training. I don t want us to press the panic button yet, as we have Shabanie Mine coming. If we can look to win that one, we ll stay within touching distance of the top, Mangwiro said.He said they were likely to make changes during the transfer window period, but would not bring in big names. The players we have haven t done enough to get the team where it s supposed to be and obviously going into the (transfer) window period, we would need to make one or two big acquisitions but we won t go for big names. It has become a trend in the PSL to continuously recycle certain players and I don t think going into the window we will go for the so called big names. We will look at identifying gems that need to be tapped, not just in my team, but in general, he said.Triangle have ample time to pick themselves up before their next fixture after the PSL announced that there will be no league action this weekend as the Warriors will be taking on Liberia in an African Cup of Nations qualifier in Harare.@khumzallen