Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter SEVENTY-five percent of children living on the streets of Bulawayo come from outside the city. This was revealed during a stakeholders meeting which was held in the city on Wednesday.Speaking at the meeting which was attended by officials from Child-line Zimbabwe, Thuthuka Trust, the Department of Social Welfare and other stakeholders, the Director of Social Services for Bulawayo, Mr Jackson Nyoni, said the increasing number of street children in the city was worrisome. The statistics of the number of children that we have in the streets are worrying. The numbers are increasing at an alarming rate and somehow it seems like no matter how much we try to unite children with their families, somehow they always find their way back to the streets, he said.Mr Nyoni said it was important for the children to be reunited with their families. It has been resolved that these kids should be repatriated. However, such an exercise would require money because these children would need escorts.Funds permitting, this exercise should commence soon. It is unfortunate that we are going through this tough economic situation but it should be done, said Mr Nyoni Most of these children have alter egos and don t use their real names in the streets but we want to help them get united with their families. Every child deserves a home and some parents somewhere are worried about what may have happened to their children. The Chronicle on Thursday interviewed 10 street children between the ages of 13 and 18 and only two were from Bulawayo. Some were from surrounding rural areas while others said they were from other towns. I came from Kwekwe. I boarded a train that was going to Harare. Life was difficult in Harare and I met some friends then we decided to board a train to Bulawayo. I have been living in the streets of Bulawayo for two years now. I live in alleys with my friends, said a 15-year-old boy whose name has been withheld for ethical reasons.@andile_tshuma