Minister Patrick ChinamasaBusiness Reporter TREASURY plans to commission a study on the operations of small to medium enterprises (SMEs) to ascertain the sector s needs so as to come up with adequate supporting policies, a Cabinet Minister has said. Speaking during a debate in the Senate recently, Finance and Economic Development Minister, Patrick Chinamasa, said inclusion of women and the youth in mainstream economy was crucial in developing a solid economic base. We are talking about women, youth, economic players who are in the informal sector. Clearly, we cannot leave women behind and in this case they are very much in the forefront of informal businesses, he said. I am going to commission a study to do a survey of the informal sector. We have got a regional company, which is specialised in conducting those surveys. We are doing a survey of the informal sector. We want to know how many they are. We also want to know what specific activities they are doing, the environment, and the location &#8211; are they under a tree or in some accommodation. On the basis of information that will be gathered, Minister Chinamasa said Government will be able to form informed decisions , which can be the basis of policy formulation. So we will do this undertaking. We also want to know how many women, how many are the youth, the elderly, and the disabled? Are business people in the informal sector? If I may make reference to a contribution made later. All that information will be very useful to formulate our policies, said Minister Chinamasa.In a related matter a non-governmental organisation, Proweb Zimbabwe, has embarked on a business training and mentorship programme for women entrepreneurs in Bulawayo.Executive director Mrs Sithabile Mangwengwende said the training was meant to equip women with business skills and training them to have knowledge about the business aspect in order for their businesses to be viable. We have been coming to Bulawayo for the past three years and in this workshop we are mentoring women with business skills and giving them knowledge about the business aspect in order for them to be successful in their businesses, she said in an interview last week. Women are excited about this programme and the response is very encouraging because they are eager to be given the skills. I urge women to fully commit themselves because their business lives can be changed for the better. 