Yvonne with SimbaDanisa Masuku TWO years ago, South Africa-based Street Motown artiste, Simbarashe Charandura, performed a rendition of Yvonne Chaka chaka s song Kana Uchichema at a memorial service in Pretoria and charmed the renowned musician who was to become his mentor. As fate would have it, after the memorial service, Chaka chaka sent her assistant to tell Charandura that she wanted to chat with him. I d been invited to perform at the memorial service of a community leader that was attended by politicians and artistes from SA. I gave one of my best performances and as I was packing my instruments, Chaka chaka s personal assistant rushed to me and told me that Chaka chaka wanted to see me. She told me that she enjoyed my performance of her song and invited me to perform at her birthday party that would be held a few weeks later, said Charandura.Seeing that as an opportunity of a lifetime, Bulawayo-bred Charandura willingly agreed and impressed again at the party. Chaka chaka was impressed with my vocals and the way I played. As a result, she set another meeting, this time for mentorship as she wanted to help me manage my musical brand as she believed in me, he said.Without thinking twice, the Street Motown artiste took up the mentorship offer. We agreed that we d meet at her house for the courses and we often communicate on social media. Charandura paid tribute to Chaka chaka for moulding his career and giving him valuable musical lessons. She s a mother to me and she has helped develop my career. Her valuable musical lessons have shaped my perception and boosted my confidence. He said his association with the Thank You Mr DJ hit-maker was the beginning of a union which led to the recording of his debut album. In that same year that I met Chaka chaka, I managed to release my first album titled Zenith. The album, which has seven songs, tackles issues to do with love, pain and truth. Some of the songs have received airplay on SA radio stations such as Rufaro, a love song I dedicated to my son. Now, Charandura, who is on a tour of Europe, said he is working on his second album titled Changing Chords. The album will have 13 songs. The album focuses on love, social ills and a few remixes of some of the songs from Zenith. On his stay in South Africa, Charandura said things were shaping now after seven years in the neighbouring country. At first, it was difficult after I relocated, but through determination and perseverance, things are shaping up now. I, together with my friend Farai Machingambi formed a five-member band in 2009 called Roots Intact. We used to do live performances in Pretoria and Johannesburg and also got slots to play at festivals and weddings. However, the band spilt in 2012 and I decided to go solo, he said.Fortunately for him, he was invited to perform in Europe just after going solo. From 2012, I ve been getting invitations to perform in Germany at various shows and festivals. I m currently in Germany performing, supported by my friends here. From Germany, Charandura will travel to Slovenia where he is billed to perform alongside Slovenian musician, Lin Morre. He also has gigs lined up in Bosnia, France and Spain. He will conclude his tour in Italy.