Minister Makhosini HlongwaneSikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter THE National Sport and Recreation Policy document is finally in the public domain almost a year after its approval by Cabinet. The policy aims to unlock the potential of sport and recreation as an industry and address the re-organisation of the sector through a Sport and Recreation For All approach that envisages the democratisation of and the decentralisation of sport and recreation delivery agents to the grassroots and other previously disadvantaged communities.It also seeks the establishment of a sound competitions structure that starts from the base of the pyramid to the national level by all sport and recreationdelivery agents.The competitions structure should promote the identification, development and tracking of talent from the grassroots level to the top of the pyramid.The document had not been accessible since its adoption by Cabinet in August last year but on Wednesday, the Minister of Sport and Recreation Makhosini Hlongwane ordered his staff to release it to delegates attending the Zimbabwe National Youth Games general assembly at a city hotel. I hope that you brought policy documents for these people, the national policy, at least they must have it, they can take away the national policy from here. These are the sports practitioners, they should interact with the policy document, if you have not make sure it is delivered, they must have the policy document, said Minister Hlongwane.The 32 page document covers various topical issues within the sports industry.In the foreword, the President Mugabe says the policy was formulated to provide a framework within which sport and recreation activities are to be promoted and supported in order to realise the vision of an active, empowered and excelling sporting nation. The constitution of the Republic of Zimbabwe impresses an obligation on the State to take all practical measures to encourage sporting and recreational activities, including the provision of sporting and recreational facilities for all. This is in recognition of the immense contribution of sport to the nation building and social cohesion. To this end the Government seeks to create the necessary conditions for all Zimbabwean to benefit from sport and recreation through the promulgation of this Policy, said President Mugabe.He further states that as enunciated in the national economic blue print, sport is expected to play its part in job creation, economic transformation and the empowerment of all Zimbabweans, especially the youth. To realise this aspiration, concerted effort will be made to catapult the sport industry onto a path of sustainable growth. In addition, sport tourism will be enhanced through the hosting of mega international events, said the President. @skhumoyo2000.