Danisa Masuku A chance meeting on the Internet helped rapid rising Bulawayo Hip Hop muso, Bret Rammz to join hands with up-and-coming American Hip Hop artist, Rahc Wilson to record a single. Bret Rammz, real name Bret Ngwenya also popularly known as the Tear Dream King said while he was browsing a USA news website, he came across a story about Wilson not knowing where this would lead him. When I was browsing the Internet, I came across a story about Wilson s new single track that he had just released. I then downloaded the song which I liked because of the beats. After listening to it, I researched more on this artiste and found his contact details. I decided to send him three songs from my previous album which I wanted him to listen to for a possible collaboration, he said.He said he was at a loss for words after Wilson s management informed him that the US artiste had agreed to collaborate with him. To my surprise, Wilson responded through his management and said I needed to send him the instrumental of the song, said Bret Rammz.Without wasting time, Bret Rammz called on the services of Harare producer, Kronik to work on the instrumental. I quickly composed the lyrics for the hip hop single and sang my part. After two days, my part was complete and I sent it to Wilson, via email, to sing his part. Rahc Wilson took the first verse and didn t take much time working on the single which we named Get The Cheese. The local hip hop artiste said the single was a motivational song that is meant to stir up youths to work hard and find innovative ways of making money. The song simply means get the money. It s meant to encourage my peers to give it their best in this music industry and produce quality music that ll be loved by people. If they do so, they ll be able to make money and survive on music. The track also discourages youths to shun laziness and be industrious, he said.Bret Rammz believes the collaboration is his key to tapping into the international market. I believe this single will act as a window of opportunity for me to break into the United States of America music market because Wilson is fast rising there.We re working on recording a full album together, he said.Speaking on their collaboration, Wilson said: I liked Bret Rammz beats and as such, I decided to work with him for free on this collaboration to promote his career. The single which was released recently is being sold for a dollar and is available on Soundcloud.The collaboration follows hard on the heels of Bret s debut 15-track album titled Straight from L.O.B. It features tracks Bhekela Phansi, Umajaiva, Amagrapes and Bagcwala nge Stampa.