Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A MAN from Tsholotsho is on the run after allegedly fatally stabbing a fellow villager with a spike on the chest after accusing him of gossiping. Thulani Ncube allegedly stabbed Thubelihle Sibanda (22) of Maqethuka line with the sharpened iron rod on Sunday night.He fled from the scene and Sibanda was pronounced dead on arrival at Mpanedziba Clinic.Villagers said an enraged Ncube approached Sibanda who was warming himself around a fire, in the company of villagers that included Ms Misodzi Ndlovu (44) who is a nurse at Mpanedziba Clinic. Ncube approached Sibanda and demanded to know what he had been discussing with Ndlovu. That resulted in a heated argument with Ncube becoming violent and killing Sibanda, said a witness who declined to be named.Matabeleland North police spokesperson Inspector Siphiwe Makonese said investigations into the murder were underway. I can confirm that we are investigating a murder case and the suspect is on the run. The suspect started an argument with the now deceased. He rushed to a nearby makeshift hut where he grabbed a weapon which he used to stab the now deceased once on the chest and disappeared into the darkness. The victim sustained a deep wound and bled profusely until he passed out and was declared dead upon arrival at the nearby clinic, she said.Insp Makonese urged members of the public to refrain from engaging in violence and instead solve their disputes amicably. We have registered an increase in murder and attempted murder cases involving trivial matters which culminate in people clashing and stabbing each other. This has caused unnecessary loss of lives and serious injuries. We have since engaged traditional leaders and church leaders to assist us in fighting crime through counselling members of the public, Insp Makonese said.A villager, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Ncube provoked Sibanda with the intention of starting a fight. Sibanda actually tried to tell him off, telling him he was being disrespectful to elderly people who were sitting around the fire. The two probably had grudges which we aren t aware of. Others tried to restrain Ncube who seemed in a mood to fight. He overpowered them and dashed to get a weapon. He brought a sharp iron rod and in no time he had had stabbed Sibanda once in the chest and Sibanda died a few minutes later. He ran away. Sibanda tried to chase after him but became weak and collapsed after a few metres. He bled profusely and the nurse, MaNdlovu tried to render first aid as they rushed him to Mpanedziba clinic but he died upon arrival, said the villager. @winnie_masara