Cde Kindess ParadzaThupeyo Muleya, Beitbridge bureau INADEQUATE infrastructure at Beitbridge Border Post is hindering the speedy implementation of the one stop border post concept between Zimbabwe and South Africa, it has emerged. Border officials told the parliamentary portfolio committee on Foreign Affairs on Friday that office space and staff accommodation fell far short of demand which comes with the needs of the port as one of the busiest in Sadc.Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (Zimra) regional manager for Beitbridge, Mr Batsirai Chadzingwa said the situation at the border was deplorable.He said the border had not been upgraded to allow the separation of traffic into commercial, light commercial, transit, hazardous, buses and tourists. We have a serious challenge of infrastructure at this port, which makes it difficult to implement some of the border management systems, he said. It is also sad to note that the border perimeter fence has been vandalised by touts and other criminals who gain entry through undesignated points. Even if we repair the fence they continue vandalising it. We have employed the services of other stakeholders to reduce such incidents .Mr Chadzingwa said when the border was built it was meant to handle low traffic volumes.He said it was important to accelerate its upgrading to meet modern standards.About 170 000 people, 15 000 haulage trucks, 35 000 private cars and 2 500 buses access the country through Beitbridge border post every month.Mr Chadzingwa said they had moved the clearance of pre-owned cars mainly from Japan to Manica and Malindi transit sheds as a way of decongesting the border post. Under normal circumstances we should be doing everything from one point, but due to the status quo we have to be innovative. We appeal to you as parliamentarians to ensure that the upgrading of this border post is done with the urgency it deserves, he said.Mr Chadzingwa said they were worried by the presence of touts, dealers and beggars whom he said were worsening congestion at Beitbridge Border Post.These, he said were playing cat and mouse with border security personnel every day. Under health and safety matters it is important that the paving of the border is done urgently as you can see this place has a lot of fine dust especially around the arrivals commercial section, he said.Chairperson of the portfolio committee, Cde Kindess Paradza, said the slow upgrading of the infrastructure was a stumbling block to the development of the one stop border post between Zimbabwe and South Africa. Our major focus is the promotion of regional trade and the government s policy shift on the ease of doing business which we are pursuing very seriously, said Cde Paradza. As parliament we want to see how Zimra and immigration among other border agencies are promoting that thrust. We are happy that border officials at Beitbridge are alive to this government thrust, though their main frustration is mainly of poor and inadequate infrastructure. It is important that we attend to this issue (re-organising the border) and speed up the implementation of the one stop border post, he said.He said under the one-stop-border post, travellers will be cleared once for passage into either country, rather than the current situation where they have to under the same processes on both sides of the border.He added that the realignment of operations at Beitbridge will boost Foreign Direct Investment and increase regional trade and international cooperation.