Bukhosi Zakhu Sibanda just can&#8217;t stop scoring. Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter Bantu Rovers 1-1 Tsholotsho FC BANTU Rovers drew their first match of the season after 13 outings, while their rivals Tsholotsho clocked the same number of matches without a win, as both sides shared the spoils in a Castle Lager Premiership game at Luveve Stadium yesterday. The league s leading goal scorer Bukhosi Sibanda put Rovers ahead with a well taken 11th minute set piece to take his goal tally to nine.However, a howler by veteran defender Dumisani Ndlovu three minutes later gifted Tsholotsho the equaliser. The gangly central defender miscued a back pass to drawn out goalkeeper Notice Dube, who was dispossessed by an alert Lucky Nyathi to level matters.The two sides put up brave faces after the match in which they ruled out automatic relegation at the end of the season, although they remain in the drop zone. There is a chance of survival, there are still more than half of league games left and I think we can still make some improvements. I don t think we are far away, we are one or two positions behind, but I must say we are really happy with the younger players and the development they are having, but there are a couple of positions I think we can upgrade when the window opens, said Bantu Rovers head coach Methembe Ndlovu.His Tsholotsho counterpart Darlington Dodo described his mission of pulling the great escape as work in progress. It s work in progress. I cannot say what will happen, but that s why we are here. I am sure we will get things right. We have to survive and there s no two ways about it, said Dodo.The match had some flashes of brilliance, especially from the young Rovers players, although their display didn t yield the desired result. Tsholotsho s forays upfront found 18-year-old central defender Shadreck Nyahwa unyielding.Teams Bantu Rovers: Notice Dube, Jileni Nsingo, Shadreck Nyahwa, Dumisani Ndlovu, Tapiwa Kumbuyani, Munyaradzi Chitembwe, Lucky Ndlela, Bukhosi Sibanda, Gladman Bharibhari (McCarthy Dube 88th min), Obriel Chirinda ( Kudzaishe Dzingwe 82nd min), Mbonisi Ncube (Brighton Ncube 56th min),Unused subs: Junior Mubayiwa, Fortune Sibanda, Master Mlangeni, Stephen ChimusoroTsholotsho: Chang Mariyoni, Bruno Madanhire, Nkosilathi Moyo, Godfrey Mukambi, Trust Nyabinde, Pride Zivengwa, Malon Mashonga, Xolani Ndlovu, Nixon Gama, Thabani Moyo (Thomas Chimenya 62nd min), Lucky NyathiUnused subs: Marshall Phiri, Shephard Mhlanga, Canaan Nkomo, Spar Dube, Tawanda Zinake, Winston Chiwetu@skhumoyo2000