Rahman GumboRicky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter CHICKEN Inn crept back into the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League s championship matrix after recording their third consecutive win to take their points tally to 21 from 11 games. The 2015 champions beat Harare City 1-0 in the capital courtesy of an Innocent Mucheneka goal and now trail log leaders Ngezi Platinum Stars by five points. Ngezi have played a game more than the former champions.Chicken Inn s victory in Harare came as a relief for coach, Rahman Gumbo, who was believed to have been given a target of 11 points from his team s last five games.Gumbo picked up 12 points from four identical 1-0 score lines against Yadah Stars, Highlanders, Shabanie Mine and Harare City. They lost 0-1 to FC Platinum during that five-game target given to Gumbo.Gumbo now has to find a remedy for his team s poor home form that has seen them recording only one victory against Shabanie Mine. Six of the seven victories they have recorded this season have all been on the road.The Gamecocks have a good squad with experienced players that have won the championship before.Among some of the players are Clemence Matawu, Thabani Goredema, Guide Goddard, Passmore Bernard, goalkeeper Elvis Chipezeze, George Majika and Moses Jackson.While Chicken Inn grabbed maximum points, leaders Ngezi were held to a 0-0 draw by Chapungu. A victory over Chapungu would have seen Ngezi increasing their lead over second-placed Black Rhinos to five points.Ngezi enjoy a three-point lead over Rhinos, who were inactive at the weekend as their opponents Caps United were involved in a Caf Champions League encounter.As for Chapungu, who are in position 13, the result against the table toppers means the Gweru side has now gone for six matches without conceding a goal. The last time Chapungu conceded a goal was on April 29 when they lost 4-0 to Caps United.Third-placed ZPC Kariba took their points tally to 22 to remain in the championship hunt. ZPC Kariba beat Bantu Rovers 3-1 at Nyamhunga Stadium courtesy of goals by Raphael Manuvire, Talent Chamboko and Tawanda Munyanduri.Rovers captain and the league s leading goal scorer Bukhosi Zakhu Sibanda got the consolation goal for his team and took his tally to eight goals from 11 games.The Zvishavane derby between FC Platinum and Shabanie ended in a 1-1 stalemate. Talent Chawapihwa scored for FC Platinum, while Wellington Taderera was on target for Shabanie.FC Platinum are now seventh with 20 points. The platinum miners are waiting for the verdict of their abandoned match against Highlanders at Mandava Stadium last week when the two sides were deadlocked 1-1.Shabanie Mine are in 10th place with 13 points. Hwange salvaged a point against Yadah following a 2-2 draw in Harare. The coalminers are third from the bottom and need to start collecting points to get out of the relegation waters.Kelvin Kaindu s How Mine won their derby against Bulawayo City 1-0, with Kuda Musharu on target, taking their points tally to 21. How Mine are fifth on the log with 21 points, while Bulawayo City are ninth with 17 points.Dynamos registered their third consecutive victory, beating basement club Tsholotsho FC 1-0 in Beitbridge. The former champions scored through Quality Kangadze.