M-Net s Mzansi Magic (DStv 161) channel has created a new South African awards show, the Mzansi Viewers Choice Awards that will take place on August 26. The awards being held in conjunction with DStv will be broadcast live on Mzansi Magic. Viewers will get to choose their favourites from 10 categories that include famous names from the worlds of acting, music, sport, comedy and others.Bonang Matheba will be the host of the awards where she is nominated with Thembisa Mdoda, Pearl Modiadie, Robert Marawa and Phat Joe for best TV presenter.Anele Mdoda is nominated for best radio personality alongside Sgqemeza, Tbo Touch, T-Bose and Ba2cada. The rising star category sees Amanda Black, Sjava, Zamani Mbatha and Michelle Mosalakae nominated.Warren Masemola, Siyabonga Twala, Sello Maake Ka-Ncube, Themba Ndaba and Ntokozo Dlamini will also go head to head for best actor.M-Net director of local entertainment channels, Reneilwe Sema, said: To be able to organise and host a gala whose entire focus is on those stars, we believe we can give our viewers an evening of stand-out performance, red-carpet glamour and unforgettable truly Mzansi-styled magic. Below are the nominees:1. Song Of The Year A. Musa ft Robbie Malinga Mthande B. Black Motion Imali C. Bhizer ft Busiswa, SC Gorna, Bhepepe Gobisiqolo D. OkMalumKoolKat Gqi E. Prince Kaybee Charlotte2. TV Presenter A. Robert Marawa B. Pearl Modiadie C. Phat Joe D. Bonang Matheba E. Thembisa MdodaBonang Matheba3. Comedian A. Skhumba B. Summary C. Celeste Ntuli D. Tumi Morake E. Mashabela4. Rising Star A. Amanda Black B. Zamani Mbatha C. Michelle Mosalakae D. Sjava E. Andile Phehlukwayo5. Radio Personality A. T-Bose B. Tbo Touch C. Anele Mdoda D. Sgqemeza E. Ba2cadaAnele Mdoda6. Actor A. Ntokozo Dlamini B. Warren Masemola C. Siyabonga Thwala D. Sello Maake Ka &#8211; Ncube E. Themba Ndaba7. Actress A. Vatiswa Ndara B. Thuso Mbedu C. Masasa Mbangeni D. Lorcia Cooper E. Dawn Thandeka King8. Music Artiste or Group A. Lebo Sekgobela B. Black Motion C. AKA D. Cassper Nyovest E. Kwesta9. DJ A. Black Coffee B. DJ Zinhle C. Prince Kaybee D. DJ Shimza E. Tira10. Sports Personality A. Caster Semenya B. Wayde van Niekerk C. Kagiso Rabada D. Keagan Dolly E. Akani Simbine Online