The late Edzai KasinauyoGrace Chingoma, Harare Bureau FORMER Warriors defender George Mbwando broke down yesterday at a funeral palour in Harare where a memorial service was held for the late Zimbabwean footballer and administrator Edzai Kasinauyo ahead of his burial today. Kasinauyo, who died in Johannesburg last Friday, will be buried at Glen Forest cemetry in Harare at 2pm today.His close friend, George Mbwando, whom he partnered on a number of projects after their retirement from the game, including catering for orphaned children in Hwange through the Football Against HIV/AIDS project, broke down during yesterday s body viewing.He could only say his life will never be the same again. I have lost the other part of myself. I am a half now, said Mbwando, who flew all the way from his base in Germany to attend the funeral of his friend.Harlington Shereni says his generation should carry on the work which the late Kasinauyo started and ensure they play a big part in helping develop Zimbabwe football.Kasinauyo was 42 and has left behind two sons Jayden (12) and Justin (10).He had divorced his wife of 12 years, Faith Fadzai Makoni, last year.It was a sombre moment as scores of people, including former players, administrators and supporters joined the family which included Edzai s father Forbes Chidemo and his mother Theresa Chidemo at the parlour. It is really something hard to take. I even remember the first day I started playing professionally, we met at Raylton Sports Club. From there a great journey begun. I have no words to describe him, his death is too much of a blow for me,&#8221; said Shereni. He had a great vision for football and I hope the guys left we will be able to do something in his honour because his life was cut short before he would implement everything.&#8221;His vision should not be lost by his death and we (former players) should promote his ideas.&#8221;Zifa board member Philemon Machana, Zifa acting chief executive Joseph Mamutse, former Zifa chief executive Jonathan Mashingaidze, former PSL chief executive Chris Sambo, former Zifa board member and women s football boss Miriam Sibanda, former Warriors manager Charles Mafripa Dzvairo, Warriors fan Gladman &#8220;Dallas&#8221; Sekawawana, former footballers Kennedy Nagoli, Alois Bunjira, Thomas Sweswe, Norman Maroto, Dynamos assistant coach Biggie Zuze and sport casters Barry Manandi and Mike Madoda were some of the people from the football community who gathered at the parlour yesterday.More people are expected to descend on the private cemetery today to bid farewell to the Warrior who was part of the national team which went to the 2006 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. Former Warriors skipper and Mamelodi Sundowns manager Peter Ndlovu was expected in the capital last night.A number of South African players are also expected to attend the funeral.