Yoliswa DubeTHERE S been so much hype around the Bulawayo Arts Awards I can t say I m not excited. The organisers of this inaugural event say they re rolling out a red carpet that makes me even more excited. Come June 30, I know I m going to see lots of gorgeous gowns and dapper suits.Of course I m ready to see a jumpsuit or two, maybe a bandana and sneakers as well. There s just no telling what people will wear to the City Hall on this day.I can t say I know for sure what I m going to wear yet. I m still battling with a few ideas. I thought I d wear a short dress with a tutu skirt and an embellished or African print bodice. But one fashion designer I consulted said that wouldn t work.She said I needed something that would give me height because I m short. I wasn t exactly sure what this meant but she said a short dress would make me look even shorter.She instead suggested I wore a gown that would accentuate my figure. Apparently my figure is a tailor s dream I had no idea! Instead, I ve been trying different diets so I can shed a little weight. I m no longer doing that, the tailor said my figure was lit and that s final!Anyway, I think I ll flaunt the figure and wear something that will highlight all the perfect spots. But, what are you going to wear?It s a black tie event, there s going to be a red carpet, you can t afford to wear a two-piece suit. You also can t wear jeans and a checkered shirt.Think class. Think elegance. Think chic.Black is always a great colour to work with. It s safe yet so rich. Black is easy to accessorise, and trust me you may not need to buy any new accessories to work a black dress.Understand that you don t have to always part with your hard earned cash to look good. Look around you and open your eyes to the gems you already have in your wardrobe. Make them your inspiration for the rest of your look even.You ll be surprised what magic you can work without spending a cent.I love African print material but I m not sure it would be a great fabric for the red carpet unless it s used to accentuate a different type of fabric. Colour blocking was quite popular at the recently held South African Music Awards but this is always a great risk.You have to be really sure about your colour combinations and ensure they don t come across as a random unification of colours. Personally, this is a risk I wouldn t want to take.Navy blue, red, white and purple are great colours for any evening do. Metallic shoes gold or silver are also awesome for such events.For me, a dark coloured suit would be the perfect choice for any guy who takes themselves seriously. It would really be pushing it asking Bulawayo men to wear a black suit with a white shirt and a black bowtie because that s what a black tie event demands but at least wear a well-fitted suit and be appropriate for the event.Anyone who decides to wear a blazer and asks what shirt to wear it with I always recommend a white one. Anything works over a white shirt, whatever the tone of your skin. You may feel white is overdone but believe me it ll save you a whole lot of mishap.The sentiment is unisex. Your white shirt or blouse will go with whatever you want it to. It could be a pair of formal pants, dark or light wash denim jeans, African print, java practically anything!I ve noticed some men prefer black shirts over white ones to evening events. That works well if you re Leroy Gopal or DJ Napstar fashion savvy. A black shirt and black blazer combination will require accessories like a pocket square, lapel pin and a bow tie with a young chain to add some detail to the whole ensemble.You ll also need to be one bold man to pull it off black draws more attention to the pieces accompanying the suit than the suit itself. A few puffs of your favourite fragrance will certainly tie everything together perfectly. When you smell great, you re automatically more attractive, trust me.Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa, visit my blog,www.stayera247.blogspot.com or like my Facebook page Pattern &amp; Style.