Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter HANDICRAFT producers contribute up to 30 percent of Africa s Growth Domestic Product (GDP) and require more support for governments to achieve inclusive and sustainable development, an official said. The GDP is one of the primary indicators used to gauge the health of a country s economy.Small to Medium Enterprises and Cooperative Development Deputy Minister, Mr Noveti Muponora, yesterday called for political commitment towards supporting the sector, saying it was one of the biggest employment creators.He was addressing delegates at the 9th Conference of Ministers of the Co-ordination Committee for Development and Promotion of African Handicraft (Codepa) at the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair in Bulawayo.The three-day conference (Codepa) is being attended by representatives from 26 African member states that are spread through the five regions of the continent. The handicrafts sector is crucial for the African economy with a significant contribution of about five to 30 percent of GDP in member countries. The industry offers great potential for African countries to grow their economies, said Mr Muponora. The development and growth of the handicrafts sector is being hampered by a number of challenges, which include limited access to financial support, inappropriate technology and infrastructure and technical skills. The sector, therefore, requires political commitment so that it reaches its potential. The Deputy Minister said Governments should come up with a co-ordinated approach and strive to put in place policies that support the small and medium enterprises sector. It s important for member states to address these challenges and harness political support to promote handicrafts. To address the financial challenges our Governments, with support from financial institutions and development partners can avail resources to the sector. Crafters should also develop their skills and put in place strategies to make sure that they meaningfully contribute to the economic development of their countries, he said.Codepa secretary general, Mr Sie Thephile, said the conference provides a platform for member states to promote ways of circulating information on the art and craft sector in African countries. This conference will go a long way in developing integrated craft hubs that create an effective enabling environment to ensure products reach markets. It will also develop research and development capabilities for the arts and handicrafts sector and ensure the free flow of information, said Mr Thephile.He said the handicraft sector was one of the biggest forms of non-agricultural employment, especially women and youths. The promotion of the handicraft industry is one of the vehicles that can be used to attain Goal 8 of the Sustainable Development Goals, which is to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable growth as well as productive employment. The public sector should therefore promote development oriented policies that support productive activities, job creation, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, said Mr Thephile.The conference is running alongside craft exhibitions, which are produced in Zimbabwe and other African countries.@pamelashumba1