Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls A SELF proclaimed prophet who doubles up as a tsikamutanda has appeared in court facing nine charges. Jabulani Nyoni (20) was arrested after villagers in Jambezi, Lubangwe and Matetsi areas in Hwange district complained that he was allegedly terrorising them.Nyoni allegedly accused villagers of being witches and wizards before grabbing their livestock as payment.It is alleged that Nyoni, together with two other men who worked as his emissaries, Norman Nkomazana and another one identified only as David, would forcibly drag villagers to a shrine where he would allegedly shave their heads and put marks on their foreheads with a razor blade to administer some herbs.Nyoni appeared before Victoria Falls magistrate Ms Rangarirai Gakanje facing extortion, kidnapping and unlawful detention, indicating witches and wizards, assault, assaulting or resisting a police officer, stock theft, escaping from lawful custody, driving without a valid driver s licence and driving without due care and attention.Through his lawyer, Mr Njabulo Ndlovu of Ndove, Museta and Partners, Nyoni pleaded guilty to five of the charges: kidnapping and unlawful detention, assault, escaping from lawful custody, driving without a valid drivers licence and driving without due care and attention and not guilty to other charges.Prosecuting, Mr Takunda Ndovorwi led evidence from two witnesses Mrs Scholastica Ndlovu and Mr Chondonda Edson Muleya who told the court that Nyoni threatened to kill them if they refused to go to his shrine and pay him for his services.They both said from the way he was conducting his work, they were left confused when they discovered that Nyoni was an inyanga yet initially he had claimed to be a prophet. He summoned me and my husband to his shrine and told us that there is a big snake at our homestead and he needed three buckets of maize and $20 to remove it. He later changed and demanded two beasts and when we refused he pointed a horn which was wrapped in a red cloth threatening to kill me, he said. He is not a prophet, he is a tsikamutanda. I have never seen a prophet who uses herbs, said Mrs Ndlovu.Mr Muleya, who was allegedly kidnapped together with his mother by Nyoni from their homestead, said they were hospitalised after he used a razor blade to shave their heads and pierced them with a needle. He told us we were affected by evil spirits. I couldn t do anything since I am disabled. He put something which had a flame and a needle in my palm and I felt so much pain and my hand was bruised. He then forced me to sign an affidavit authorising him to exorcise my homestead, said Mr Muleya.Nyoni s trial continues on July 13 where three more witnesses will testify. @ncubeleon.