DJ StavoShowbiz Correspondent After an epic show at Club Connect in Bulawayo last month, DJ Stavo has once again been invited to the city for another performance at the same venue tomorrow. Riding high on his hit single The Journey featuring Roki that has been topping Mtv and Channel O charts, the humble DJ is expected to wow crowds again supported by DJs Prince Eskhosini, Kead Wikead and Crazy Black.An excited DJ Stavo said he was humbled to have been invited to perform in the city again adding that he could not wait to rock party lovers. Bulawayo I m with you this Friday. Make sure to link up as it s going to be a memorable show, he said.His show will, however, be on the same night as the Bulawayo Arts Awards and most followers have been inviting him to attend the awards. It is, however, not clear if he will attend.DJ Prince Eskhosini, one of the organisers of the show said: Patrons who attended Stavo s show last month enjoyed themselves a lot and they requested that we bring him back. Others heard their friends had fun and also requested for another performance from him so they can experience it so we heeded all these calls. He said the event will also be a way to celebrate the DJ s success. DJ Stavo has undoubtedly been putting Zim music on the world map over the years with his songs which have quickly been picked by international music outlets. We need to celebrate him for that, said DJ Prince.Meanwhile, the party at Connect will not end on Friday as a contingent of Harare DJs Nash, P-Styles, T-Bass and Rimo who play at plush nightclubs there will take over from Stavo on Saturday evening. These DJs from Harare will be performing at our club for the first time and they really want to bring the Harare vibe here and impress audiences. We on the other hand want to give our patrons a wide range of entertainment so it s promising to be a good night, said DJ Prince Eskhosini.On Saturday, DJ Stavo will proceed to Victoria Falls for a performance at new nightspot, Club Nitrus. He will be backed by his friend, Star FM DJ Ash Stylez and UK-based Simple Dread.