Mr Givemore ChidzidziLeonard Ncube in Victoria Falls THE Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) says sport and leisure event organisers are playing a crucial role in the economy by attracting thousands of international visitors who support the tourism sector. In an interview here, ZTA chief operations officer, Mr Givemore Chidzidzi, said sport, art and cultural activities should be given all the support to widen their activities as tourism ambassadors for the country.Victoria Falls, for instance, has become a hub for thousands of visitors who attend major leisure events such as the Kwese Sevens Rugby Tournament that was inaugurated in March this year, the recent Econet Victoria Falls Marathon as well as the end-of-year Jameson Victoria Falls Carnival, which are now permanent features in the town s calendar.Last year s carnival attracted more than 7 000 visitors while Sunday s marathon had 2 700 runners taking part.Mr Chidzidzi told Business Chronicle on the sidelines of the 11th Econet Victoria Falls Marathon that the tourism sector was poised for growth this year. The marathon is growing bigger each year hence we now have to prepare ourselves. As ZTA we will do our best to market such events that bring more numbers into the country. The challenge is now on players to up the game and match demand as well, he said.Mr Chidzidzi said ZTA was excited about the business brought by such events. You can see how many foreigners are here. Accommodation facilities managed to reach capacity while runners are also partaking in different activities. Nightlife was also put to test hence the need to up the game and match demand or even work with the organisers in marketing. Our aim as ZTA is to increase arrivals and these events contribute towards that, he added.Victoria Falls Mayor, Councillor Sifiso Mpofu, said the country s tourism should take advantage of such sporting activities whose participants will be the country s tourism ambassadors. This is the time to measure our capacity and reflect on where we are lacking. All these people will go back and be our ambassadors and tell the whole world that Victoria Falls and Zimbabwe at large are hospitable, he said.Hotel Association of Zimbabwe (HAZ) Victoria Falls chair, Mr Chris Svovah said leisure events have helped increase arrivals in the resort town. These huge numbers translate into high demand for our beautiful accommodation facilities and tourist activities in the resort and it s not surprising that most hotels and lodges registered occupancies of 100 percent especially on the 17th of June, which was a day before the big event, he said. The whole town was full and the good thing is that all entities within the resort do benefit, that is, hotels, tour operators, airlines, taxi operators, vendors, supermarkets and other suppliers. Victoria Falls has been enjoying a new lease of life since the commissioning of the upgraded international airport last year, which has attracted a number of international airlines. We are happy about the latest developments in Victoria Falls and all we need now is vigorous marketing. Our assessment shows that some couldn t get accommodation hence the need to improve on bed capacity, said Clr Mpofu.Econet marketing manager, Ms Melanie Mariri, said the giant mobile operator will continue giving back to the community through a number of initiatives and activities such as support for sports.@ncubeleon