Tonderai NdirayaSikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter FOCUS will be firmly on match officials this afternoon when the two platinum sides take to the field at Mandava and Luveve stadiums for their crunch Castle Lager Premier Soccer League encounters. FC Platinum host leaders, Chicken Inn at Mandava while at Luveve, Ngezi come up against fellow miners How Mine who stumbled last weekend when they were held by table anchors Tsholotsho.It is no doubt that the two matches are set to be high tempo, pound for pound encounters that any football fan would want to witness firsthand. The four sides are firmly in the championship matrix and perhaps deservedly so as they enjoy sound corporate backing, extremely talented players while their technical line ups are made up of shrewd mentors.However, there have been claims from a number of the platinum sides victims this season that match officials have been aiding their causes with dubious calls in their favour.It was Caps United who first made noise about how they were treated by referees when they visited Baobab Stadium, home to Ngezi.Reports later emerged that poor Bantu Rovers were also bullied there. As for FC Platinum, complaints from opponents are just too many to mention so this afternoon, all eyes will be on whether the men who will be assigned to handle the two games will rise to the occasion or not .Last week, Dynamos cried foul when they fell 1-3 to FC Platinum. Despite all the complaints of poor or biased officiating towards the two sides, the Zimbabwe Referees Committee has not received any official letter of complaint from the affected clubs, raising questions about the credibility of those outcries. We have never received any complaints from clubs as regards officiating in matches involving the two platinum sides. Maybe they just complain to you guys (media) because procedurally a club raises its concerns with the competition organisers who in this case will be the Premier Soccer League. The PSL will then write to Zifa who in turn will contact the particular sub-committee which is us but we have not received any such correspondence to date, said the Zimbabwe Referees Committee vice chairman Gladmore Muzambi.Allegations of biased officiating aside, the two matches in Bulawayo and Zvishavane are set to be full of thrills and spills as the sides look to ascertain their title routes and the only way to do that is to eliminate your closest rivals.Rahman Gumbo, the Chicken Inn coach, has made known his ambition to winning the league title this year and has said his boys are also psychologically prepared to face any opponent. It s now not about the physical fitness of the team but more to do with mental strength, said Gumbo.The respected gaffer has inculcated a sense of belief and fighting spirit in his charges but today s encounter will crudely test that. All we want is to grind a result and we don t mind how we do that. We re going to Zvishavane with one thing in mind, a victory. It won t be an easy game, but we are confident of getting our desired result, said Gumbo.The Game Cocks will also be seeking revenge after suffering a 0-1 home defeat in the reverse leg at Luveve Stadium.It will also be revenge in mind for How Mine who were beaten 0-2 by Ngezi Platinum in the reverse fixture but events leading to today s encounter might not be what coach Kelvin Kaindu would have wanted. We are playing a side that has the best strikeforce in the land but we are ready for them. We are happy that everybody reported for training and is focused for the match, said Kaindu.How Mine players reportedly staged a mini-strike some time this week over unpaid allowances.At Barbourfields Stadium, it will be a battle of the bruised sides when Bulawayo City, losers to Chicken Inn in their last league match, take on Shabanie Mine who were outclassed 2-0 by Highlanders at Maglas Stadium on Sunday.Both sides will be too eager to quickly rise from the losses.In Harare army side, Black Rhinos take on giants Dynamos at Rufaro Stadium hoping to put a stop to their suddenly porous defence that has seen them concede seven goals in their last two matches.Goalkeeper, Herbert Rusawo, is expected to be fit after missing the 3-0 defeat to Chapungu last Sunday that saw goalkeepers coach Britto Gwere guarding the goal posts. We are in a serious soul searching mode and have been talking to individual players for the way forward but we will bounce back, said Black Rhinos manager Marko Ncube.FixturesToday: Bulawayo City v Shabanie Mine (Barbourfields), Yadah FC v Tsholotsho FC (Morris Depot), How Mine v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Luveve), FC Platinum v Chicken Inn (Mandava), Black Rhinos v Dynamos (Rufaro)Sunday: Highlanders v Harare City (Barbourfields), Caps United v ZPC Kariba (National Sports Stadium), Triangle v Bantu Rovers (Gibbo). @skhumoyo2000.