Oliver &#8220;Tuku&#8221; MtukudziMelissa Mpofu, Showbiz Editor BIGTIME Strategic Group, organisers of the Gwanda Gospel Festival, say the clash of dates between their event and the Harare International Carnival is deliberate. The gospel jamboree kicks off on September 1 ending on September 3 with the carnival kicking off on the same day and ending on September 10, though the highlight of the carnival, the street party, will be held days later.Bigtime Strategic Group Zimbabwe spokesperson, Alson Darikayi, said since they were hosting their event in partnership with the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) organisers of the carnival the gospel fete would serve as a precursor to the carnival. Also, Bigtime is heavily involved in the organisation of this year s carnival as they are the anchor sponsor so they decided to have the dates closer for event logistics. It s strategic that the Gwanda Gospel Festival is running concurrently with the carnival as the same stage equipment that ll be used in Gwanda will be transported to Harare for use during the carnival. The main stage and VIP marquees will be set up by us so instead of having the trucks going back to South Africa, we decided that we host the events during the same period, said Darikayi.He said once they conclude the gospel festival, all roads will lead to Harare where their role will be to set up for the carnival street party, where according to them, one of the biggest stages in Africa will be erected. They will also be instrumental in the organisation of the carnival welcome cocktail party. Bigtime is sponsoring the carnival and like any local event that we ve sponsored, we always make sure we go all out and add some glitz and glam to locally organised events which we want to imitate international events. As such, our main focus at the carnival will be on the street party where our team will set up the best stage. We ll also provide a marquee that will house over 3 000 VIP guests as well as sound and lighting which are key for such an event. Other than that, Bigtime is engaging up to 10 South African acts whom they will pay to perform at the carnival. They will also pay for the main local acts.Turning to the Gwanda Gospel Festival, Darikayi said preparations were going on well with the stage equipment and advance team expected to arrive in the host town next week.He said a memorial lecture for the late Vice President Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo would be held at a hotel in Bulawayo for college and high school students a day before the festival. On the same day, Bigtime Bulawayo Awards will be held in the evening to honour and celebrate the city s citizens for the roles they play in different disciplines.On the first day of the gospel festival, Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko is expected to address people at a public lecture that will be conducted in the morning at the Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo college in Gwanda.Afterwards, the festival will be officially opened with Oliver Tuku Mtukudzi being the headline act. A church service on Sunday, September 3 will mark an end to the three-day fete.