Grace Chingoma, Harare Bureau ZIMBABWE soccer giants Dynamos and Highlanders will get a chance to showcase their prowess when they face Botswana opponents Mochudi Centre Chiefs and Tafic in a four-team Supa Power tournament in Francistown on Saturday. The country’s two biggest football institutions have been invited to take part in the competition that is run along the lines of South Africa’s traditional Carling Black Label showdown between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates, which precedes each season. Dynamos will meet Division One side Tafic in their first match in the morning before Bosso take on top-flight side Mochudi Centre Chiefs. The winners will then meet in the final later in the evening while the losers battle for third place. Dynamos secretary-general Webster Marechera said they were looking at the one-day tourney as a window through which they could also market the Glamour Boys brand to their multitude of fans who are in Francistown and other cities and towns in Botswana. The games have already been sanctioned by the Premier Soccer League who have since postponed the two giants’ fixtures. Dynamos were pencilled in to face How Mine away while Bosso were scheduled to date Tsholotsho. Club president Kenny Mubaiwa said they were looking to travel this morning with all their registered players, who are set to get an appearance fee of P5 000 each from the organisers. “We are scheduled to leave tomorrow (today) by road. We are using our own bus but they are providing for our fuel as well as accommodation. “We are carrying all our registered players with each player expected to get an appearance fee. There is no prize money for the club but each player will receive P5 000. “What is also exciting about this tournament is that the players will be selected by SMS (short message service), by the fans who will choose who plays in the two matches,” Mubaiwa said. Mubaiwa said the tournament had been on the cards since April. The tourney has, however, not been short of its problems with doubts often hanging over it especially given that both Dynamos and Highlanders insisting they would not make the road trip before they received their appearance fees for the games.