The late Tariro MaphosaRichard Muponde, Gwanda Correspondent A PROMINENT Gwanda businessman was shot dead by two masked armed robbers who also shot and injured his wife. Mr Tariro Maphosa (47) was with his wife and daughter when two robbers, a man and a woman pounced on them on Monday at around 8.30PM as they entered their Jacaranda suburb home.Mr Maphosa s wife is admitted to the United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) after she was shot in the calf while his daughter who was driving their family car when they were attacked, is being treated for shock at Gwanda Provincial Hospital.Police national spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba who confirmed Mr Maphosa s death, said he was shot three times. Circumstances are that the businessman confronted the armed robbers after they attempted to rob him and his family as they entered the gate to their residence. He was shot three times in the stomach as he tried to wrestle with the armed robbers. The robbers also shot his wife on the calf before they panicked and fled from the scene, she said.Snr Ass Comm Charamba said police have since launched a manhunt for the suspects and appealed to members of the public with information that may lead to the arrest of the suspects to contact their nearest police station. Police have launched a manhunt for the suspects and would like to appeal to anyone with information concerning the whereabouts of the accused persons to contact their nearest police station or phone National Complaints Desk on 04 703631, she said.Snr Ass Comm Charamba urged members of the public to improve security at their homes such as putting flood lights at their gates to reduce chances of being robbed in the dark.She, however, warned robbers and other such criminals that the law will always catch up with them.A source said Mr Maphosa and his family were returning from their business premises in the Gwanda Central Business District when they were attacked.The source said Mr Maphosa s daughter who was driving, had disembarked from the car to open the gate when the woman robber pounced on her brandishing a knife and demanding cash.The man who was armed with a pistol then confronted Mr Maphosa and his wife who were in the vehicle and ordered them to disembark. The three family members were then ordered to lie down but Mr Maphosa stood up begging the robbers to spare his family and deal with him, said the source. He was shot three times after which the robbers turned the gun on his wife whom they shot on the left calf. The source said soon after the attack, the robbers disappeared into the darkness without taking anything. The trio was rushed to Gwanda Provincial Hospital where Mr Maphosa was certified dead on arrival while his wife was treated and later transferred to Bulawayo for further attention at UBH. The daughter is admitted at Gwanda Provincial Hospital where she can t speak because of the shock, said the source.Gwanda mayor, Councillor Knowledge Ndlovu who is also councillor for Ward 3, where the late businessman, Mr Maphosa resided, expressed shock at his death.He described him as brilliant farmer and enterprising businessman. We are really saddened by the situation as the people of Gwanda. We really lost a pillar of strength in farming and an enterprising businessman. He was a humble person who worked very hard. We are very shocked by this attack as the Gwanda community and hope the police will bring these culprits to book, said Clr Ndlovu.@richardmuponde