Erol AkbaySikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS coach Erol Akbay will not be renewing his contract when it expires at the end of the season and the Dutchman chose yesterday s press conference to announce his decision in front of stunned club chief executive officer Nhlanhla Dube. While Akbay s contract was known to expire at the end of this season, expectations were high that the club would renew it, but its precarious financial position seems to have played a huge part in the Dutchman s decision to sever ties. I have told the executive that I will stop at the end of this year from coaching Highlanders. I don t know what I am going to do at the end of this year, but I will see. There are a lot of reasons, but of course the biggest reason is the financial situation for me and that is why it s not possible anymore to continue working for Highlanders. Even if the financial situation improves I have made up my mind; my contract ends at the end of this year and I am not renewing it, Akbay said at the club s weekly press conference.Dube said it was news to him because him and the rest of the club executive members were not aware of this development. He hasn t informed the executive, I just heard it now just like you and I am yet to digest it, said Dube.Akbay, who led Bosso to a third place finish in the first of his two-year contract last season with 17 wins, five draws and eight losses, refused to comment on his next port of call or whether he will remain in the country or on the African continent. I decided yesterday to stop coaching this club. I have no idea of what other opportunities are available in this country, but we will see what happens, he said.The coach denied being in talks with the Swaziland Football Association to coach Isihlangu or any other club in the country or outside. What about them (Swaziland Football Association)? If you want to go or change, you have to say it after half of the season; it s normal for coaches as well as players, so that the club knows and can look for another coach. Other clubs will also know that Erol is going and they can come and talk to me, said Akbay.The Dutchman, however, said he was still committed to Highlanders and was looking forward to winning all there is to play for this season. As a coach I want to win everything on offer. We want to win everything now and I hope we do that, he said.Bosso are still in the championship matrix despite being seventh on the table heading into this weekend s league matches. @skhumoyo2000