Morgan TsvangiraiNduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor ZANU-PF Secretary for the Commissariat Cde Saviour Kasukuwere yesterday said the party would win the 2018 general elections in an emphatic fashion that will bury the MDC-T hence recent signs of panic by its leader Mr Morgan Tsvangirai. The panicky MDC-T leader told journalists in Harare on Thursday that the Government was already planning to rig the 2018 elections by its decision to go it alone in the procurement of Biometric Voter Kits.Addressing party members at an inter district meeting at Davies Hall in Bulawayo, Cde Kasukuwere said those seeking to form a coalition with Mr Tsvangirai were equally doomed as Zanu-PF would run over them during the polls. As each day goes, we are getting closer to 2018 and the party must be strong, organised and mobilised. We are going for victory that s why Morgan (Tsvangirai) is panicking. All these years you have been contesting and now you want to create stories about rigging, he said. He (Tsvangirai) is running scared and knows that we will send him packing. Zanu-PF is strong yet the opposition is dead, Tsvangirai, Didymus Mutasa, Joice Mujuru all of them. Every day they are forming new parties yet we still remain as one Zanu-PF. Cde Kasukuwere said Mr Tsvangirai would never rule Zimbabwe as he represents colonial interests and a reversal of the gains of the country s liberation. I would rather vote for a tree than vote for Tsvangirai. What crime would the country have committed to condemn it to Tsvangirai s rule? That will never happen. Leaving President Mugabe to support Tsvangirai? Never, he said. And those coalitions with Tsvangirai are doomed too. Mujuru has no shame wanting to be Tsvangirai s deputy. When President Mugabe was giving land back to his people, Tsvangirai was drinking tea with Tony Blair promising to reverse the exercise. Cde Kasukuwere said the MDC-T was finished as evidenced by the paltry crowds that Mr Tsvangirai addressed in his countrywide consultations over forming a coalition with other parties ahead of 2018. Those who are making deals with Morgan at night, we are watching you. You will not succeed, he said.Cde Kasukuwere reiterated calls he made the previous day for the province to be united so that they are stronger. The last time we had Members of Parliament in Bulawayo was in 2000 and after that we were in trouble. Let s not destabilise our MPs but let us support them. Now we want to win everything. We also want to get into council and change the direction of City Hall, he said.Cde Kasukuwere said there were already vacancies in two council wards following the sacking of Bulawayo deputy Mayor Mr Gift Banda and Mr Reuben Matengu.He said those who do not want to follow the party s rules were free to go citing Zapu leader Mr Dumiso Dabengwa as one of those who left the party in overestimation of their clout. Zanu-PF is not an experiment station but a people s party. Take the party to the cells because the party belongs to the people, Cde Kasukuwere said.He warned some elements plotting against the President that they would be stopped in their tracks. We will stand with the President till death. We parted ways with Dr Joshua Nkomo at the Heroes Acre so did we part with Cdes Simon Muzenda, Joseph Msika and John Nkomo. We will therefore stand with President till the last minute, Cde Kasukuwere said.&nbsp;