Allen Khumalo, Sports Report THE Bulawayo Metropolitan Cricket League has put its league matches on hold due to damp conditions at Bulawayo cricket grounds. Provincial cricket administrator Stanley Staddon said Queens Sports Club, Bulawayo Athletic Club (BAC) and Emakhandeni grounds have all been affected by heavy rains that have been pounding the city. For the past few weeks Bulawayo has been receiving lots of rain, but for cricket enthusiasts it means a little disappointment. We have suspended the matches until the ground conditions are good for the games to be played. We have a busy schedule ahead of us and will fit in the remaining matches despite the delay, said Staddon. The Bulawayo grounds are not fit for any match to be played at the moment. Right now the grass on the pitch has not been cut for two weeks and to take a 10-tonne truck to cut the grass will damage the pitch even further. In cricket, the ground is supposed to be in a certain standard so that the speed of the ball is not affected. The out pitch is not in good condition because we cannot cut the grass or even move a tractor to cut it because it might damage the ground.Even though we cover the pitch when it starts raining, we don t cover the rest of the ground. We therefore saw it fit to put on hold our matches, he said.The matches have been suspended with five League One matches remaining before the cricket season ends, two matches in League Two and three games for League Three.The last league match was played on January 21, but ended as a no result after it was washed out.The unfavourable pitch conditions have also affected Matabeleland Tuskers preparations for their Logan Cup match against Mashonaland Eagles set for March 4-7. Matabeleland Tuskers will be departing for Masvingo on Friday to play their Logan Cup match against Mashonaland Eagles. The provincial team was meant to have a training session today in the morning, but we skipped that session because of the dampness of the outer field. They might be able to do some net session because the ground is very damp, Staddon said.@khumzallen