Samukeliso SilenganeAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE Women s Football vice-chairperson Samukeliso Silengane has hit out at claims that the executive committee members meeting with Southern Region Women Soccer clubs was a failure. This follows reports that a February 19 visit to Bulawayo by the Zimbabwe Women s Football executive aimed at meeting and interacting with Southern Region clubs collapsed when only four teams attended while the rest boycotted saying they were not informed on time.The regional visits were one of the activities which were taken by Zimbabwe Women s Football president Rosemary Kanonge and her board to make women football viable in the 2017 season. First of all that meeting was not called by Zifa vice president Omega Sibanda as has been reported by the media. Those regional meetings were called by Rosemary Kanonge who is the chairperson of Zimbabwe Women s Soccer League (ZWSL) and also the chairperson of Zimbabwe Women s Football. Those teams who claim to have boycotted the meeting are not part of us and we are not worried about them, Silengane said. If you boycott, stay wherever you are but as far as we are concerned the Southern region meeting was one of the best. People who attended really raised important points and we were even surprised as the executive that this is the third region we are visiting but the points that we got were amazing. Those who say the meeting was a flop are being pained by the fact that the teams which were present were given balls as a token of appreciation, she said.Silengane said the board is unfazed as the teams that attended the meeting are part of the national women s soccer league. New Orleans called us and apologised saying they cannot make it to the meeting as they were outside the city but they came and got their token because they communicated. Those teams that attended are part of our teams in the national league so we are not worried as Zimbabwe Women s Soccer League.Those who claim to have boycotted that s where they belong let them stay there while others are moving. We are happy our teams are with us and we held a successful meeting, she said.Silengane said there was a need for unity in the women s football as the teams prepare for the beginning of the 2017 season. Let us be positive towards the development of girl child that we are busy preaching about. Let us be seen taking action not just talk. We don t want people who will go around spreading lies, abusing the media as anonymous sources. Let us unite in developing female footballers in the region not to destroy it by spreading lies, said Silengane.Meanwhile, Southern Region soccer outfits, Street Set, New Orleans and Hearts of Oaks are in Gwanda for a women soccer tournament being held at Silonga Secondary School today.The tournament is sponsored by a Bulawayo businessman David Moyo and will feature Silonga girls soccer and a select team from Gwanda. @khumzallen