Southern Region Women s Soccer players follow proceedings at a Footballers Union of Zimbabwe workshop in Bulawayo yesterdayAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter THE Footballers Union of Zimbabwe (Fuz) yesterday held a workshop for the Southern Region Women s Soccer players at the Old Mutual Heath Streak Cricket Academy in Bulawayo. The workshop is a FIFPro initiative aimed at understanding the current working conditions of female football players in the country s four regions Southern, Northern, Central and Eastern.Fuz president Desmond Maringwa facilitated the workshop together with his deputy Herbert Dick and former Mighty Warriors striker Nomsa Boyz Moyo.Also in attendance was the Zimbabwe Women s Football vice-chairperson Samukeliso Silengane.Maringwa said the workshop was an opportunity to help capture a comprehensive picture of the reality on the ground which would be used to improve conditions of players and thereby strengthening the women s game. We have noted that the women s game is lagging behind and as a union we should be able to play our part in helping the girl child. This is a fact finding mission we are doing around the country in terms of finding out how football is being perceived within the women s game. We didn t have a clue on how the players feel and what challenges they are facing so that we try to address those problems. Once we have identified those problems, we will then meet with the relevant authorities so that we map the way forward, said Maringwa. Looking at the Mighty Warriors performance at the Rio Olympics, you can tell that the talent is there, but there is serious need for us to build a strong foundation in the regions in order for us to succeed. What we have discovered is that women s football in the country is still at amateur level so probably what we are going to do is to engage the football association so that it becomes professional. Once the sport is professionalised, we will know it will improve as we go. The programme is also aimed at reminding the girls that football does not last forever and there is life after football so they must also pursue education, he said.Silengane hailed the move by Fuz saying such programmes will play a big role in developing the game in Zimbabwe. I came here to support this noble move by the union because I feel like they are really going to make a difference in this region. I am glad that they came here at this time and I strongly believe the girls learnt a lot. I really commend such workshops which are meant to develop the girl child, Silengane said. @khumzallen.