Cal_vinBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent Rapper Cal_Vin is a man on a mission. The artiste has had no rest in the past two weeks as he is busy selling his new album Uthando on the streets of Bulawayo. That Luveve boy as Cal_Vin is affectionately known, has started a movement, #iBoughtUthando, where he vigorously markets and sells his CD on the streets and takes pictures with those who will have bought the album. Using the #iBoughtUthando hash tag, the pictures are then posted on social media networking sites as a way of enticing others to also buy copies.The album is being sold for $2.Other than selling the album on the streets, Cal_Vin has been marketing the album on his social media pages where he provides a number for people to call so that he delivers the album to them.The passionate artiste has been spotted moving around town with a satchel full of CDs and he has set a target of selling at least 1 000 copies by the end of this month. So far, I ve managed to sell over 500 CDs. I m not sure how many I ve sold online as I m still to sit down and calculate how much I ve sold in total, said Cal_Vin. Every day I m selling over 20 CDs and it s very possible that I ll reach my 1 000 target. Cal_Vin said he hoped that by selling his album this way, it would motivate other musicians to do the same. I hope this will inspire others to sell their CDs. Even though we don t live in a CD era, I ve realised that people are willing to buy the CDs and keep them at home. The reason people don t want to buy our music is because it s not availed to them, he said. There s a market for anything, one just has to present themselves to people and sell their idea of their art. Cal_Vin said personally selling his music had actually connected him to his followers. Uthando has been the most interesting project for me as it has introduced me to a new market especially the elderly. It has given me a new meaning of music and the word hustle. There s a beauty behind having a one on one conversation with fans and followers, especially when we take pictures. I get to explain the album to them so that they won t have a hard time figuring it out. &nbsp;