Pattern and Style, Yoliswa DubeI WAS having my toe nails done at the salon the other day when a lady selling nail polish, lipstick, face powder, foundation and concealer came to my pedicurists work station to advertise her products. I was interested in seeing what she had because I d been looking for red matte lipstick for a while.I can t seem to get the perfect shade of red so I haven t settled for any quite yet.So as this lady was showing my pedicurist, Sammy, her products, she kept going on and on about how her stock had diminished and if Sammy didn t pick anything she would have to wait a long time until her next order.This woman s products must be greatly sought after, I thought. Perhaps this was going to be my godsend, the person who would have the perfect red matte lipstick for me.I got the shock of my life when I asked how much the lipsticks cost to begin with. Wait for it. They cost $1! I honestly couldn t believe it. Just $1 for lipstick!Call me corky but I ve often part with not less than $20 for a good quality lipstick. And to think this lady was $19 cheaper was unbelievable! While I was still in a state of shock, some ladies in the salon had started going through the merchandise to see if there was anything they liked.Some literally hoarded lipstick upon nail polish upon face powder I just couldn t believe it! Of course this lady is trying to earn a decent living but please don t complain about dry, chapped lips after using that $1 lipstick.Stop complaining to your friends about regular break-outs on your face they were not there when you were buying that $3 face powder. Of course buying a $100 product doesn t guarantee that your skin won t react to it, but if it does, you ll know exactly what went into the product and it ll be easier to trace what you re allergic to unlike these imitation $1 deals whose specifications are not clearly stated. God knows what chemicals you re subjecting your skin to!No wonder why it s hardly even-toned.Be very careful about the products you choose to apply on your skin. Be very specific. Choose brands that are dermatologically tested and make it a point to check the reverse label for what went into the product.Try by all means to purchase your cosmetics from reputable dealers such as departmental stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. I know the $1 price tag can be tempting but think of the long term. Think about the investment you re making by purchasing a genuine product of anything.It will do a better job at taking care of your face and lips than products that cost 99 percent cheaper than the original.If there s anything I ve learnt over the years is to be extra careful with my skin. I realise that a moment of madness can cost me a couple of weeks of misery.Squeezing and nursing pimples is no fun. Trust me, I know.I d rather apply Vaseline on my lips to keep them plump and moist instead of settling for a $1 lipstick that will deprive them of moisture, making them dry and flaky.That s the worst. Flaky lips are just unsightly.Women have varied reasons for wearing make-up and there s really nothing wrong with that.Just don t settle for cheap products that will degenerate your skin. Even when you go for the genuine products, never take your skin for granted. Don t be lazy to wash your face after a day with make-up on. Don t go to bed with it. If left on, make-up clogs your pores and causes blemishes. Be good to your skin and believe me, it will be good to you.Feedback from #NAMAzw The good, the bad, the ugly I loved, loved, LOVED your article Yoliswa. Our entertainment industry will never reach its full potential until every stakeholder steps up!! If an opportunity to host a show ingangonzi Pattern &amp; Style The ZimFiles lol do give a sister a ring! Amanda.Sandra killed it, did you hear the screams when she hit the stage to present an award. Mthabisi Innocent Marapini.Good article; the problem with these artists is that they don t have image managers. BonganiIn as much as everyone is entitled to an opinion, I respect yours. But I guess if you had watched the South African Music Awards you would have ten pages to write about people s dress codes. Mirror Mirror.I totally agree MaDube. As a fashion blogger you have the right to write. Don t stop. But how do you write a review ngamaNAMA ungikhohlwe shuwa. Charlene.Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa, visit my blog, www.stayera247.blogspot.com or like my Facebook page Pattern &amp; Style.