Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent THE Minister of State for Bulawayo Provincial Affairs, Cde Nomthandazo Eunice Moyo, leads a high-level business delegation to Malaysia to explore investment opportunities in the Asian country. The delegation, comprising officials from the Bulawayo City Council (BCC), the Federation of Women in Business in Eastern and Southern Africa, the Association of Business in Zimbabwe (ABUZ), the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) and individual business executives from the city, will depart tomorrow on a six-day trip.Yesterday, Cde Moyo met some of the officials she will travel with to Malaysia.She said those she will be travelling with have strategic roles in the revival of the city s economy.Cde Moyo said they expect the trip to open investment opportunities for the city and create employment. Our intention is really to tap into everything that we can learn and bring new strategies, machinery, whatever approach that will assist us to achieve Zim-Asset goals, she said.Cde Moyo lauded the BCC, which will be led by the Town Clerk Mr Christopher Dube, for participating in the trip. It s a very important trip. We are all very excited. People said ahh the council is led by the MDC and they will refuse to go. But let me tell you no one wants to see a low Bulawayo. Regardless of party affiliation we all want to see Bulawayo getting the mark, she said. People say Bulawayo is marginalised. We have taken that and want to make use of it. I m happy that I m getting co-operation from the City of Bulawayo in this programme. BCC acting community s development officer Mr Brian Hlongwane said council would use the opportunity to lure foreign investors.Mr Hlongwane said council would use the trip to explore opportunities in power generation among other areas of interest.ABUZ official Dr Lucky Mlilo said: Bulawayo has been declared a Special Economic Zone. Those are some of the things that we need to sell to the developed world. We know the Malaysians have done well in their economy over the past years. This is a good trip that we will use to learn one or two things from the Malaysians. @nqotshili