Allen Khumalo, Sports Reporter PREPARATIONS for the United Nations (UN) International Day of Sport for Development and Peace games set for Bulawayo next month are underway with Matabeleland Action Sport (MAS) saying it has embarked on a mission to promote minority sports around the city. MAS is a sport development and promotional organisation focusing on minor sports which include indoor hockey, cricket, bowling, mini football, touch rugby and karate.MAS marketing and communications manager Alice Berebende said the country will be joining other UN members in celebrating the day and they are already working together with the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education to promote minor sports in schools. Preparations for that international day have already begun and we are promoting minor sports in Bulawayo as part of those measures. Our vision is to identify and cultivate people skills in leadership at the same time building physical, spiritual and emotional wellness. Sport has proven to be cost effective and flexible tool in promoting peace and development objectives so we are also trying to promote that through sport. Right now we are conducting workshops and this is in line with what the ministry wants in terms of having a year of proper governance. We are also working closely with the Ministry of Sport and Recreation to make this a success. The world can only be a better place when people are at peace and that will lead to development, said Berebende.The International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the UN have a long standing commitment to using sport as a tool for social change and we ve worked together on many projects over the years. Both organisations have used sporting events to build cultural understanding and improve education, health, economic and social development.On August 23, 2013, the UN proclaimed that the International Day of Sport for Development and Peace would be celebrated on April 6 each year. This date also marks the opening of the first modern Olympic Games in Athens in 1896. @khumzallen