BOFOZ 2014 winners with Ba ShupiShowbiz Reporter BLACK Opal Face of Zimbabwe (Bofoz) has changed its format for winners with the top three winners set to be awarded various amounts of money discarding the winner-takes-all format of previous years. Bofoz spokesperson, Tanaka Ngorora, said the lady who would be crowned queen will get $5 000 while her first princess will walk away with $2 000. The second princess will be given $1 000.He said the pageant s theme All Eyes on Me was meant to transform the girl next door to being a household name after participating in the competition. The All Eyes on Me theme has a double entrendre. Participants, finalists and especially winners will all get a chance to be in the national spotlight; to shine and have visual and life transformations in the public arena, said Ngorora.The competition is once again open to any female over the age of 18. Those who want to enter should purchase any one of our Black Opal Eye products. This includes the newly launched and well received Eye brow liner kit , dual eye shadows, eye liner, mascara, and eye brow pencil. Once purchased, entrants must attach proof of purchase to a filled-out entry form along with an A6 face portrait. Alternatively they can WhatsApp a photo along with purchase details from the participating retail outlet, said Ngorora.The 2017 competition that launched last month will close on May 16 with SMS voting for January and February contenders already underway. Up to nine contestants will be published each month after vetting. The top three highest SMS vote tallying contestants will automatically qualify for one of the 12 finalist spots at the grand finale.The selected contestants will converge in Harare for the final in September. When they come for boot camp, the finalists will have an action packed schedule including professional photo shoots, rigorous boot camp and training camp. All this will be available for public viewing on Bofoz social media platforms. According to the rules of the competition, the final score is 50 percent SMS score and 50 percent independent panel judges score so contestants need to get as many votes as they can and also excel on the ramp if they want to win.Hazvineyi Chiota was crowned queen last year while Mazvita Chakawa and Robin Chivanga were capped first and second princesses respectively.The pageant was headlined by Jamaican music star, Romain Virgo who staged his maiden performance in the country at the Glamis Arena in Harare.