Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter NATIONAL team and Chicken Inn midfielder Tafadzwa Kutinyu has signed a two-year contract with newly promoted Tanzanian Premiership side Singida United. The 22-year-old midfielder left the country on Friday to conclude his deal.Tawengwa Hara, the Chicken Inn secretary-general, confirmed Kutinyu s deal, but declined to go into details of the player s move to Tanzania. Kutinyu got a very good deal at Singida United and he is in Tanzania where he went to put pen to paper. As a club we re happy for the player and wish him the best. I believe this move shows that Chicken Inn is a club of choice for upcoming players because when we sign a player it s like we re investing in that person and the result is seeing that player go for greener pastures, said Hara.He defended Kutinyu s move to Tanzania, saying the east African country s league has proved to be competitive of late and it s the right step for the player to take.Kutinyu joins, among other Zimbabwean players plying their trade in Tanzania, Bruce Kangwa, who is at Azam, the Young Africa duo of Thabani Kamusoko and Donald Ngoma, as well as Simba s Method Mwanjali. Kutinyu s career won t be affected at all by moving to Singida United. Look, Kangwa was part of the Warriors squad whilst playing in that league. Tanzania can be an avenue for Kutinyu to break to other leagues. We believe he can make a big move in the next two years and that is why in our deal with Singida United we ve put a sale-on clause, Hara said.Singida United are in the Singida region in central Tanzania and are owned by businessman Yusuf Mwandami, who is a Young African FC member, according to records.The club is bankrolled by that country s Minister of Home Affairs Mwigulu Nchemba, who is the MP for the area.Nchemba told Chronicle Sport yesterday that his club is also interested in roping in Warriors and Dynamos defender Elisha Muroiwa as well as Caps United striker Simba Nhivi.He said his club is loaning Kutinyu back to Chicken Inn until the transfer window opens in June. Kutinyu is here and is leaving for Zimbabwe tonight. He has signed a two-year deal and we are happy to have him in our books. Because the season is about to end, Kutinyu will go back to Chicken Inn and will join us in June. We re also hoping to conclude deals with Elisha and Simba once their clubs give them permission to travel to Tanzania, said Nchemba.He believes the Zimbabwean players will help his team cement their place in the topflight as they plan to fight for the championship in the 2018-19 season.@ZililoR