Allen Khumalo, Sports Reporter SOUTHERN Region Women s Soccer League chairperson Takundwa Chimundiya has bemoaned lack of unity within their structures, saying it s not good for the development of the women s game in the country. This follows reports that the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe (Fuz) will hold a workshop for girls conducted by former Mighty Warriors striker Nomsa Boyz Moyo at the Old Mutual Health Streak Cricket Academy today. The workshop is aimed at boosting confidence in female players.Chimundiya said he is not aware of the workshop and believes there are individuals unilaterally making decisions, leaving the Southern Region s board in the dark. I was also puzzled when I read about the workshop from the media because as a board we have no clue about that programme. I don t know what this person is trying to do or where they got the power to hold such a programme without the involvement of the region s board. This is not the first time we have had such situations because sometime last month we heard that there is a team from South Africa that has been invited to tour the country and play friendly games with local teams. Even now we are not sure what happened to that team or when they are coming because we didn t know about it, said Chimundiya.He said it s high time people followed protocol to avoid unnecessary disputes within the region. The region has an executive which was voted into office and as regional chairperson, I should be notified of such programmes. I once called some individuals to ask if they are running a parallel league which we don t know about because it s not a good thing to hear things coming from the media when we have no clue about those issues. Up to now, I m still waiting for those individuals to show up. The board running the region should be notified of such events. As for the workshop I have no clue about it, he said.Today s workshop comes a week after Southern Region clubs boycotted a meeting with the Zimbabwe Women s Football executive committee, saying they were not informed about the meeting.The meeting had been called by Zifa vice-president Omega Sibanda and national women s board. The meeting was meant announce activities for the 2017 women s football season lined up by the Zimbabwe Women s Football chairperson, Rosemary Kanonge and her board.@khumzallen