Rodrick Mutuma (second right) charges forward under hot pursuit from a Power Dynamos defender while Prince Dube (second left) keeps a close eye on any spillAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter Highlanders 1-2 Power Dynamos A BRACE by Power Dynamos forward, Lyson Sikaonga, condemned Highlanders to a 1-2 loss in a friendly match played at Luveve Stadium yesterday. Highlanders scored through second half substitute Allan Gahadzikwa.Sikaonga opened the scoring in the 31st and sealed victory in the 84th minute. Gahadzikwa had equalised for Bosso in the 56th minute after coming on for Gabriel Nyoni three minutes earlier.The visitors enjoyed the bulk of possession but, however, failed to breach the Bosso defence.The first real chance of the match fell to Power Dynamos in the 12th minute when Julius Situmbeko had sight of goal, but shot over the bar.Highlanders were eventually punished in the 31st minute following a blunder by Simon Munawa in midfield which allowed Luka Lungu to break free and deliver an inviting cross from the left which Sikaonga connected past goalkeeper Ariel Sibanda.Bosso were forced to make a first half substitution, bringing on Eric Mudzingwa for Peter Muduhwa who was stretchered off after suffering a knee injury.Power Dynamos had more clear-cut chances to double their lead before the break, but failed to convert on both occasions.Both teams made changes at half time, with Highlanders bringing on Brian Banda for Munawa and Gahadzikwa in the 53rd minute in a bid to add impetus to their attack.Three minutes later Bosso drew level when Gahadzikwa headed home Banda s free kick.Highlanders had a chance to take the lead in the 59th minute, but youngster Prince Dube s shot cannoned off the upright after he had beaten two defenders.Sikaonga had the final say when he broke through the Highlanders defence to beat Sibanda in the 84th minute.Bosso coach, Erol Akbay, said his defence was not fast enough and allowed the visitors acres of space. It was good game and in the first half we played the 4-3-3 formation to see how it would work, but the players are not used to that yet. In the second half we changed to our usual 4-2-2 formation and really played some interesting football, said Akbay. It s a good thing that we lost now as it allowed us to identify our problems. Our problem was in defence where we were not quick enough and gave lots of space to our opponents. But overall I am happy with today s performance as this was a training match for us in preparation for Sunday s game against FC Platinum, Akbay said.Power Dynamos coach, Danile Kabwe, said it was a good game. It was a good game and Highlanders started on a low note, but in the second half they came back a different team. The reason for us coming here was to see how these big teams play as we are also preparing for our league in April. All I can say is that they really gave us tough competition, the standard was of a high level, Kabwe said.@khumzallen