Bulawayo Fusion Music Festival will be held at the Waterfront at Hillside Dams and will be similar to Unplugged held in HarareShowbiz Reporter A NEW family friendly festival to promote the performance of live music and boost entertainment in Bulawayo is on the cards. Dubbed the Bulawayo Fusion Music Festival, the fete will be a first of its kind for the city.The one-day event is set to be held at the Waterfront at Hillside Dams on April 8 with a host of musicians including Djembe Monks, ASAPH, Carlos Jiri, Outfit Band, Jase and Mandi Mash set to perform. Other than music, people will experience the beautiful scenery at Hillside Dams while braaing meat among many other activities which have been lined up for the day.One of the organisers of the event, Chrystal Mushonga, said they were hosting the event to bring a new fun vibe to Bulawayo while raising funds for those in need as some of the proceeds from the event will be channelled to various charity organisations in the city.The Fusion will be similar to Unplugged, a successful family festival held in Harare monthly. The Fusion is more than just a concert, it s a passionate blend of music, people and nature. Taking a leaf from Unplugged, Fusion will be an experience for the whole family as there ll be family sporting tournaments such as touch rugby, five aside football and volleyball. There ll also be arts and crafts stands, photo shoot booths, jumping castles and face painting, said Mushonga.The festival will be unique in that people will be allowed to bring in cooler boxes as well as their outdoor chairs and blankets for their comfort.She said the event would be a great platform for up-and-coming artistes. Our main goal is to fill a void where many music lovers have been starved of events that indulge them. This is an opportunity for famous singers, unknown artistes and dancers on stage to perform for the crowd. The festival will be different from others because of its family friendly experience around live music, food and urban culture. Mushonga called on corporates to support the festival as they want to raise money for children who need prosthetics and orthotics. Our first event will see us giving some of the proceeds to Sikhulile Zenzele Trust that caters for children with disabilities. These children are in need of prosthetics and orthotics and we felt we needed to support them with the help of fellow citizens .