Martin MoyoAuxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter THE Bulawayo City Council is set to conduct a Thanksgiving prayer session after the heavens opened up resulting in the city having water supplies that will last up to 2020. Late last year, the local authority was forced to effect a water shedding regime due to low dam levels.The city fathers also led prayers for rains.In an invitation letter to residents and stakeholders, the Town Clerk, Mr Christopher Dube, said the Thanksgiving prayers would be an interdenominational session encompassing all. The Bulawayo City Council will be conducting an interdenominational Prayer and Thanksgiving on Thursday 16 March 2017 from 12:30 to 1400 at the Large City Hall. Stakeholders and residents are invited to attend the Prayer and Thanksgiving service as we praise God for the rains received, said Mr Dube.He said the service would include singing, prayers and preaching.Following recent heavy rains, Mtshabezi, Umzingwane, Lower and Upper Ncema and Insiza dams are now spilling.Inyankuni Dam is now 85 percent full.Speaking during a council and media tour of city s supply dams last week, Bulawayo Mayor Councillor Martin Moyo said there was a need to celebrate the current dam levels. I think for us, this is a celebration. We have been coming here and going deep into the dams kungela manzi. We have been blessed with Cyclone Dineo this year, the last time this dam (Umzingwane) filled was in 2000 and it was Cyclone Eline. It s disaster elsewhere but for us this has been a huge blessing so we are saying let s share this experience together, said Clr Moyo. We have six supply dams and five are spilling, the only dam which is not spilling is Inyankuni which is normally a very difficult dam but this year it has also risen to unprecedented levels. As we speak it has exceeded the 80 percent full mark and that has not happened in a long time. Usually we are around 25 to 30 percent. In a good year, it s usually at 40 percent so we thank you for your prayers because we must always remember to say thank you to the Lord. When we are in need like we were in need of water, we did pray to God and he has answered our prayers. AuxiliaK&nbsp;