Gabriel NyoniAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS striker Gabriel Nyoni has urged Premier Soccer League (PSL) players to make investment a key priority during their active years. Nyoni took to social media to express the pain of Zimbabwe football fans to see players they once paid their hard earned money to watch begging in the streets and struggling to find a decent meal for their families after their careers end. A football career is very short, maybe one of the shortest careers in the world. Soccer players should learn to invest their money before their careers come to a halt. It really is a pain to Zimbabwe soccer fans to see a player they once paid their hard earned monies to watch at Barbourfields, Rufaro or Mandava stadiums begging in the streets for money and struggling to find a decent meal for their families, posted Nyoni on his Facebook Timeline.Nyoni, who graduated last year with a Bachelor of Commerce Honours degree in Marketing from Nust, said it s high time players started thinking about life after football. I play football, but I also understand that I will not be on the scene for a long time. Please my fellow football players, let s start thinking about tomorrow for our families and our reputations. According to an article published by the Africa Growth Institute, most teachers, nurses and members of the uniformed forces who are in Grade D1 and above get around $419, while those in the E5 grade such as deputy directors and chief accountants earn $508 net. Most footballers in the (Zimbabwe) PSL earn $600 or more. In football there are also winning bonuses with the minimum winning bonus a club offers to its players being $150 per game. This means Zimbabwe PSL players earn more than civil servants, he wrote.The 24-year-old speedster also warned against alcohol and drug abuse, saying these contributed to soccer players draining their money down the wrong way. Drugs, alcohol and women have been the major destroyers of soccer players finances. Instead of investing in drugs and alcohol, invest in coaching certificates whilst you are still playing, invest in building houses, those who are blessed with business minds should invest in business and those who still remember where they put their O-Level certificates take them and continue with your education, Nyoni said.@khumzallen