Arnold PayneRicky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter PROMISING young local footballers with at least five O-Levels stand a chance of being selected for life changing university scholarships worth $200 000 should they impress at trials to be held at Milton High School on Friday. The USA Soccer Scholarship tryouts have been organised by the Payne Global Sports and will be conducted by renowned United States football development coach David Casper from the University of Kentucky, who is expected to arrive in Bulawayo tomorrow.According to Payne Global Sports, the trials are open to footballers between the ages of 16 and 20.Arnold Payne, a former Zimbabwe 400m record holder, who also represented the country at the All-Africa Games, Commonwealth Games and World Championships, heads the Payne Global Sports division, which seeks to provide a platform for promising athletes to advance their talent and academics in the United States.Interim chairman of the Milton Old Boys Association Theo Weale heaped praises on Payne, a Milton old boy, for the initiative and putting his former school on the global sporting map. There s no better way for the Payne Global Sports to hold their trials than at Milton High School and we hope some of the boys at Milton will make the grade, said Weale. What is pleasing is that as a former Milton student, Payne is trying to make a difference, not only to Milton boys, but to youngsters from Bulawayo and beyond. We spoke to Milton High School on behalf of the Payne Global Sports and the school agreed that the trials can be conducted at its grounds. Hopefully youngsters from Bulawayo will come in their numbers to try their luck, he said.Milton High School headmaster Similo Ncube confirmed a request had been made for use of the school s grounds for the trials. We re waiting for the Milton Old Boys representatives as well as Payne Global Sports to come and we finalise the matter. We ve no problems with providing the facility, but there are a few things that we need to discuss first, said Ncube.Zifa Southern Region has given Payne Global Sports permission to conduct trials for players between the ages of 16 and 20 with five O-Levels.Lovemore Dube, the Payne Global Sports local chief officer, said the trials are free and players would only be allowed to take part after producing their O or A-Level certificates and identification particulars.After Friday s trials at Milton High on Friday, Payne Global Sports will head to Hwange for the second scouting mission set for Saturday at the Old Ground. The best young Zimbabwean footballers with at least five O-Levels have the opportunity of a lifetime to showcase their skills in front of one of the biggest university soccer programmes working exclusively with Payne Global Sports in the United States. These trials are a chance for lucky, talented youngsters to be signed to a four-year scholarship worth over $200 000. Payne Global Sports wishes all competitors the very best and to take this opportunity very seriously. These are world class soccer programmes that produce some of the best footballers, many of who play in Major League Soccer and throughout Europe, reads a Payne Global Sports statement.@Zililo