Nkululeko Nkala Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent THE much anticipated inaugural Bulawayo Arts Awards (BAA) have been launched with the awards ceremony set for June 30 at the Large City Hall. The BAAs to honour the efforts of artistes from Bulawayo, Matabeleland North and South, were launched on Wednesday night at a city hotel with organisers saying $40 000 is needed to stage the ceremony. Fortunately, the who’s who of the local business and arts industry were in attendance and pledged to sponsor the awards show. Among those who offered to sponsor various awards were United Refineries Limited (URL) chief executive officer, Busisa Moyo, who pledged to get three companies to sponsor. CNC pledged $200, studio time; one music video, 100 CDs, 100 DVDs and a photo shoot for one of the winners in the music award category. The steering team of the awards comprises of Saimon Mambazo, Raisedon Baya, Reason “Rizzla” Sibanda, Nkululeko Nkala, Vusumuzi Siqalaba and Mvuselelo Huni. Spokesperson, Nkala said: “We’ve structured partnership categories for people and organisations and companies willing to share the vision with us. It’s our hope that each and every award carries a prize.” There will be 38 awards in 10 categories namely, Special Awards, DJ Awards, Music Awards, Visual Arts Awards, Dance Awards, Theatre Awards, Spoken Word Awards, Fashion and Lifestyle Awards, Film Awards and Art in Schools Awards. Nominations for the various awards were opened on Wednesday with entry forms already available at Boom City offices in Bulawayo. Alternatively, one can access the entry form online from the website www.byoarts-awards.org <http://www.byoarts-awards.org>. The deadline for submissions is May 15. Nominees will be announced on or before June 7, a few days before the awards ceremony on June 30. “All works submitted must have been performed more than once or in the case of music, released and played on radio and other public platforms. All works must have been seen or consumed by the public and 25% of the vote in all awards will be from the public. The other 75 percent will be by qualified and reputable judges, who include industry professionals and journalists,” said Nkala. Here is the list of Categories (Awards) Art in Schools Awards 1.    Arts & Culture Teacher of the Year 2.    Arts effort School of the year Media Awards 1.Arts Journalist of the Year 2.    Arts Photographer of the Year 3.    Media House of the Year (Print media, Online and Electronic media) Film Awards 1.Best Film ( Across board) 2.Film Actress of the Year 3.Film Actor of the Year Fashion and Lifestyle Awards 1.    Fashion Designer of the Year 2.    Most Visible Arts Socialite of the Year 3.    Model of the Year ( Catwalk and Fashion) Spoken Word Awards 1.Comedian of the Year 2.Poet of the Year Theatre Awards 1.    Theatrical Actress of the Year 2.Theatrical Actor of the Year 3.    Theatrical Production of the Year Dance Awards 1.Male Dancer of the Year 2.Female Dancer of the Year 3.    Traditional Dance Ensemble of the Year 4.    Contemporary Dance Ensemble of the Year Visual Arts Awards 1.Visual Artist of The Year Music Awards 2.    Outstanding Music duo/group (Tshibilika / Rhumba). 3.    Outstanding Music Group (Imbube/Acapella). 4.    Outstanding Gospel Artiste of the year. 5.    Outstanding Music Group (Choral Music). 6.    Outstanding Artist/duo/ Group (House and Kwaito). 7.    Outstanding Artist/ duo/ Group (Hip Hop/Rap). 8.    Outstanding Alternative Music (Any Other Music). 9.Song of the Year DJ Awards 1.DJ of the Year Special Awards 2.    New comer of the year Across Genres 3.    Bulawayo Ambassadors Award based in South Africa 4.    Bulawayo Ambassadors Award rest of the World 5.People’s Choice Award 6.    Lifetime Achievement Award 7.     Arts Supporter of the Year (Corporate World) 8.Arts Promoter of The Year —@bonganinkunzi