Abbas Amidu (left) celebrates with teammate Phineas Bamusi after putting Caps United ahead in 44 secondsSports Reporter TP Mazembe 1 &#8211; 1 Caps United IT was not all gloom as prophets of doom would have predicted but Caps United returned home from the TP Mazembe cauldron with their heads high after Abbas Amidu scored probably one of the fastest goals in the Caf Champions League this season to hand them a vital away goal in the drawn first leg of the first round qualifier in Lubumbashi yesterday.The Green Machine, who are coming back to continental football after 11 years, held their own in the jungles of Lubumbashi and can now afford to dream big ahead of the decisive second leg tie at the National Sports Stadium this coming Sunday.Despite having been likened to sheep heading for the slaughter, Makepekepe defied the odds and were in the driving seat early when Amidu caught the hosts by surprise just 44 seconds after Burundian referee Pacifique Ndabihawenimana had started the match.The lead, however, barely lasted as Zambian striker Rainford Kalaba equalised for the Congolese giants with only nine minutes on the board.From then on the Ravens took the game to the visitors but Lloyd Chitembwe s men deserved all the credit as they didn t crumble under pressure from the hosts who sometimes benefited from some hometown decisions by the referee.Caps United are now 90 minutes away from realising their dream of playing in the lucrative group stage of the tournament if they can get another positive result in the return leg.A goalless draw would suffice but TP Mazembe, the wealthy five-time African champions, are not to be written off so easily.The Congolese outfit reminded Makepekepe of their capabilities yesterday when they had the visitors on the backfoot for the better part of the game.TP Mazembe skipper Kalaba and his strike partner Ben Malango and attacking midfielder Miche Mika stretched the Caps United defence to the limit and had a string of missed opportunities which could have turned the game on its head.Defender Salif Coulibaly s header was denied by the post. Defying the underdog tag, Makepekepe played with a big heart to keep their ambitions on track.Goalkeeper Edmore Sibanda, the hero of the preliminary round tie against Lioli of Lesotho, was in fine form again yesterday as he made a big difference between the sticks which helped to cover the gulf between the two sides.Chitembwe yesterday made a few changes to his side, bringing in Valentine Musarurwa in place of injured Ronald Pfumbidzai while their captain Moses Muchenje also got a starting place in the middle of the park. Makepekepe survived some nervous moments throughout to the last six minutes of additional time and now need to keep level heads and finish off the game at home next Sunday.The ball is now firmly in Caps United s court.However, with the scores fixed at 1-1 against a team like TP Mazembe, the five-time African club champions, it looks like it is still game on.The winner will join 15 others in the enlarged Champions League group stage, which has improved rewards following a new deal signed between Caf and Total last year.Caps United will be assured of at least $550 000 if they make the group stage with the winners of the tournament this year set to pocket $2.5 million.TP Mazembe, who last won the tournament in 2015, missed the group stage last year and their new French coach Thierry Froger has been given the task to take the team back to the top.TeamsTP Mazembe S. Gbohouo, D. Issama, K. Mondeko, S. Coulibaly, A. Zola, Kouame, D. Adjei (M. Elia, 53rd minute), M. Mika, S. Asante, B. Malango (A. Traore, 58th minute), R. Kalaba (T. Mputu, 76th minute).Caps United E. Sibanda, H. Zvirekwi, D. Dauda, J. Jangano, V. Musarurwa, D Chafa, M. Muchenje, P. Bamusi (T. Rusike, 51st minute), R. Chitiyo, A. Amidu (K. Nyamupfukudza, 70 minutes), S. Nhivi.