Mr Langton Ndlovu with his wife Simphiwe and some of their childrenAndile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter A MATOBO family is living in a cave after their house was destroyed by floods and well-wishers are being asked for assistance to rebuild the family home. The family has been living in a cave in a mountain in Nqama Village in Matobo.Mr Langton Ndlovu (39), a father of seven, said he was failing to provide for his family as he was unemployed.He said they have nowhere else to live, hence they were now living in a cave with their youngest children and triplets aged two years. Our home was destroyed by heavy rains that came with strong winds. I am unemployed and all our livestock was swept away. We are currently stranded and I do not even know where to start because my family looks up to me as their provider, he said.Ndlovu s wife, Simphiwe, said she sometimes finds herself on the verge of tears when her minor children demand food and ask why they are living in the bush. It is a painful experience. My seven children are all dependant on me. Four of them are of school going age. One is 16 and is an O level candidate. The others are in Form Three, Grades Four and Two. The youngest three are two-year-old triplets. We all live in one cave and its difficult for the ones that go to school, she said. My father called us to stay in his homestead when the triplets got sick and were admitted in hospital after being exposed to weather elements. But it s difficult for my husband to be provided for by his father-in-law. We are asking for assistance from well-wishers. She said they failed to register to receive assistance from Government because when registration was being done, their children had fallen ill and they were seeking treatment.The Ndlovu family appealed to well-wishers to help them with food, blankets, clothing, furniture, building materials, a tent and cash.The couple said they do not have a phone and well-wishers intending to help them can contact their neighbours only identified as Mr Mbonisi on 0736357661 and NaBukhosi on 073449155 as well as their cousin who is in Bulawayo Mr Shelton Nyoni on 0735 332 351.UMzingwane MP Cde William Dewa said although he was not aware of the family s plight, 30 families in the area had their houses destroyed by floods.The MP said Government had since started helping those who had registered for assistance. The CPU has sent assistance in the form of food, tents and blankets to Silobi Business centre for the 30 families that registered with their local leaders, he said. Those that may have missed the registration for some reason or another should approach their local leadership and register so that they can benefit from the next batch. Currently, we are trying to convince the communities in low lying areas not to continue settling in wet lands and low lying areas. Cde Dewa said the most affected villages in his constituency were Silobi, Dula, Nqama, Sotshe and Dotshi.@andile_tshuma