Sister Merjury Maphosa, health committee chairperson at Sipepa Transit Camp, shows multi-purpose taps to Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Professor Jonathan Moyo, who is also the member of the House of Assembly for Tsholotsho North and other guests during a tour of facilities at the camp on ThursdayAuxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter TSHOLOTSHO North legislator Professor Jonathan Moyo has called for the speedy relocation of flood victims from the transit camp saying the place is socially and psychologically inhabitable. Prof Moyo said his wish was for the flood victims to celebrate Independence Day on April 18 at their new homes. What would be great is that they celebrate Independence Day at their new homes because it wouldn t be good for them to celebrate it here, he said.Prof Moyo who was at Sipepa camp on Thursday challenged the camp co-ordinating and management committee to intensify efforts to ensure that the people are moved to the new stands. It s been a month since these people came here and no date has been set for their relocation. It s socially and psychologically damaging to keep them here a day longer. We need swift action from the local committee to move these people or else they will start going back to their homes, said Prof Moyo. As of now, we don t have a plan. I don t think it s fair that we don t have a plan yet. Where there is a plan we know what happens next is implementation. It s now more than a month since they came here and I m afraid the momentum is being lost. We really need to stay focused and not normalise this situation. He challenged the committee to come up with a date for relocation to ensure that they stay focused.Officials from the Ministry of Health and Child Care said the people could only move to the new stands when there are proper toilets and water sources.Prof Moyo first toured Sipepa Primary school which is accommodating pupils from two other schools and fulfilled his pledge to donate furniture; chairs and desks.The Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Minister also donated textbooks for all subjects from ECD level to Grade Seven valued at $17 000.At the camp he donated matemba, chunks and a beast for relish as well as blankets for Ward 7 and 8.Sipepa Primary school has intergrated pupils and teachers from Mahlaba and Mathuphula primary schools.Tsholotsho District Administator Mrs Gladys Zhou said 290 stands had been pegged at the new stands where the people would be relocated and work to construct toilets would begin soon.Chief Mathuphula thanked Prof Moyo for his commitment and efforts in supporting the disaster victims.The chief said the Government would fulfil its promise to build three-roomed houses and kitchen huts for the families.He thanked non-governmental organisations, churches and other donors who have assisted the victims at the camp.A food committee member, Mrs Sibongile Nyoni said per meal that caters for 1 150 people they use 30 kilogrammes of matemba or chunks, 300kgs of mealie meal, and 176kgs of meat.She added that they use 150kgs of rice per meal, 30 litres cooking oil per day, 32kgs sugar per day, 170 loaves and 1kg tea leaves for breakfast. As of today we have one week supply of sugar and salt left in stock, said Mrs Nyoni.@AuxiliaK