Lloyd Chitembwe Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Caps United Bulawayo Supporters’ Chapter has chartered buses to ferry the team’s fans to Harare for the must-win second leg of the Caf Champions League first round match against former continental champions TP Mazembe of DRC. Caps United plays host to TP Mazembe at the National Sports Stadium tomorrow. Zimbabwe’s champions are 90 minutes away from writing their piece of history and advance to the group stages of the continental clubs’ competition. The Green Machine go into the match bubbling with confidence following a gallant fight staged at DRC’s Lubumbashi last Sunday where they held TP Mazembe to a 1-1 draw. Now Makepekepe need to repeat that top drawer performance at the giant National Sports Stadium where the visitors are likely to struggle on the grass turf and wide pitch compared to their compact and artificial venue back home. A goalless draw or an outright victory will secure Caps United a passage to the group stages where they are guaranteed at least $550 000. Bulawayo-based Caps United board member Alex Munyaka called on the country’s football supporters to rally behind Caps United who he said will make the nation proud. He believes the prize money will probably spur the Green Machine on. “We’ll win on Sunday because our boys want to do it for themselves, the club and the country. Everyone knows that the battle is not yet over but as supporters we know the boys will do their part and we also have to do ours by rallying behind them. Hopefully the people of Zimbabwe will come in their numbers and support Caps United on this day because advancing to group stages as well as going all the way might see Zimbabwe reclaiming two Caf Champions League slots. So, even if you support Highlanders, Dynamos or any other team, please come and support Caps United. “Kudos to the Bulawayo chapter that has made arrangements for football fans to travel to Harare for the game at an affordable cost of $20,” Munyaka said. He challenged the players to guard against complacency, warning them that TP Mazembe will be seeking an early goal. Caps United Bulawayo Supporters’ Chapter chairman Danmore Zingwe said the buses would leave Bulawayo Main Post Office at 6AM tomorrow. “Everything is set for the trip and the buses we’ve arranged are open to any football supporter. We will leave early on Sunday so that we get to the National Sports Stadium on time. Those interested in travelling with us and join in the festivities can call me on 0772947332 for reservations,” Zingwe said. Like Munyaka, he is confident that Caps United will sail through. “We will qualify considering that we’ve a good home record and we got a good result in the DRC. Another thing is that Ronald Pfumbidzai and Dominic Chungwa are available for selection having missed the first leg,” said Zimngwe. Caps United supporters’ national chairman Blessing Gumbo said: “Our plea as Caps United supporters is for football lovers to come in their numbers and rally behind the boys. We believe that as Zimbabwe’s representatives, the club deserves support from Zimbabweans and we want to share and celebrate this victory  as a nation.” — @ZililoR