Ras Boom and DJ Ace katerBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent ZANKALELI hitmakers DJ Ace Kater and Ras Boom say the song which recently went viral on social media platforms has made people and promoters appreciate their music. The Victoria Falls duo, which has been in the music business for the past couple of years, only shot into prominence at the beginning of this year when the Zankaleli video went viral on social media sites because of its catchy lyrics.The song is currently sitting on Skyz Metro FM Byo Top 20 first position as well as Breeze FM s Chart Rockers.Ras Boom said they owed the success of their track to social media as Zankaleli was more of a social movement. Zankaleli has proved to be more than just a song as it s now a movement which has taken us places. People want to be part of the movement as some went as far as creating a Zankaleli challenge where people posted comic videos of themselves singing the song. We are now working on launching a clothing label Izankaleli due to public demand. We ll start off with T-shirts written #Izankaleli and DJ Ace Kater s winter wear selections which we re still designing, said Ras Boom.He said because of the success of the song, local music promoters had started booking them for shows. Last Friday, we d a great performance at the official opening of Club Nitrus in Victoria Falls where we shared the stage with Mzoe 7. The fans kept requesting for Zankaleli and our future plans are to embark on a Zankaleli tour which is scheduled to start any time from now. The song has inspired the duo to work on another single which they hope will also be a hit. We re still pushing Zankaleli. People must expect something bigger than Zankaleli which will also trend, said Ras Boom.The Zankaleli hit-makers thanked fans for supporting them as well as those who had made the song go viral by sharing it on various social media platforms. We d like to thank our fans who keep on requesting the song on radio and also voting for it on various chart shows as it continues to top the charts. Ras Boom said they were now working on perfecting their live performances so as to give fans real value for their money. Because of the song s popularity, we re hard at work rehearsing so that when people see us on stage, we give them a performance to remember so they don t have an anticlimax. 