The 16th edition of the Metro FM Music Awards at Durban s International Convention Centre on Saturday was filled with shock as there were many unexpected wins. Attended by some of SA s most celebrated musicians and showbiz figures, the evening was a star-studded event.Hosted by Metro FM DJs Pearl Modiadie and Amon Mokoena, the awards got off to a smashing start when DJ Speedsta was joined by young, up-and-coming collaborators, Tellaman and Yung Swiss for a performance of their smash hit, Mayo.When the trophy lifting finally got under way, it was new kid on the block Nasty C who walked away with the most awards. Of the four categories he was nominated in, he won a statuette for Best Hip Hop Album, Best New Artist and Best Male Album. The Hell Naw hitmaker told fans that he did not expect to win.Another new kid on the block, Amanda Black, who was nominated in five categories, and who was expected to take most of the awards for the evening, only walked away with only two, Best R&amp;B Single and Listeners Choice.It was also a shock when Babes Wodumo walked away with nothing after receiving four nominations. Some felt that although Nasty C s Hell Naw was popular, Babes Wodumo s Wololo, Kwesta s Ngud or Lebo Sekgobela s Lion Of Judah should have won the Song of the Year award.Despite having one of the more celebrated albums of the year, Thandiswa Mazwai s Belede was pipped to the award for Best Urban Jazz album by Henry Philemon s Man of Definition.The awards served up another surprise when Botswana s Vee Mampeezy walked away with the One Africa award over the likes of Tiwa Savage, Tekno and Patoranking.DJ Black Coffee who did not attend the awards ceremony said he was not impressed with the Metro FM Awards. Taking to Twitter on Sunday afternoon, the DJ criticised the awards Best Remix category that he said did not have an actual remix that was nominated.What about his Alicia Keys remix that was on high rotation and played across the world, he asked. He said the awards were definitely not helping artistes and suggested that it was perhaps time for Metro FM to do what they do best being a radio station. Most artists before us died poor . . . we are trying to fix our industry. Help us instead, said Black Coffee.Besides the shock wins, it was another glittering evening filled with a number of memorable performances.Below is the full list of winnersAfrican Pop Album: Musa Best Collaboration: Ms Pru featuring Emtee, Benchmarq, Fifi Cooper, A Reece Compilation Album: DJ Qness Dance Album: Mobi Dixon Female Album: Kelly Khumalo Group Album: Durban s Finest Hit Single: Riky Rick Sidlukotini Hip Hop Album: Nasty C Kwaito: L vovo Male Album: Nasty C Bad Hair Extensions Music Video: Duboiz Dope Dream New Artist: Nasty C Urban Gospel Albums: Dr Tumi Love &amp; Grace Urban Jazz Album: Henry Philemon R&amp;B Single: Amanda Black Separate Best Remix: Prince Kaybee Don t Give Up One Africa Award: Vee Mampeezy Best Produced Album: Sjava Best Styled Artist/Group: Mafikizolo Listener s Choice: Amanda Black IOL/TimesLive