Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent A Wedding is a public declaration of love with many people making their way to the various venues to watch their friends, relatives and loved ones tie the knot, affirming their devotion to live forever together. This week there is no Wedding of the Week, simply because the eight potential weddings that we had lined up were cancelled. The reason for the unceremonious cancellation of all eight weddings was that the husbands flatly refused to be published.After nearly four years of having the Wedding of the Week column it is mostly women who come forward with requests to feature in our column. They seem to be more excited to feature on the column than their husbands.The husbands, according to the brides, want to keep their private lives private.However, some of the brides this week questioned the motives behind their husbands refusal. I don t know why he said no. It s bewildering because this is something that was done publicly and all our friends and family were there. But when it came to the paper, he said no! I ll have to interrogate him further because I don t buy the story that he s a private person, said one disappointed bride who asked not to be named.Another said when she received a call from Chronicle Showbiz that their wedding was to be featured on the wedding of the week column, she was over the moon. Firstly I had to ask my husband and I thought it was a given that he d agree. Lo and behold, he says no, he doesn t want he s not comfortable. I asked myself what he s not comfortable with, she said.Of interest is when one wants to tie the knot their banns of marriage are announced three times way before the wedding day. The banns of marriage are put on a public place or notice board or even the local Press in some countries.On the day of the nuptials the marriage officer asks if there s someone who objects to the wedding before joining the couple.Because of this, one of the brides said she suspected that her husband had concubines. I think he has someone who he doesn t want to see that he s married. The reasons he gave were flimsy and after talking to my friends and some relatives they concluded that he was hiding something, said the bride.Most husbands refused to comment on why they refused and only one commented saying: I m an introvert. I don t like taking things out there to the public. It s not that I m hiding something but some of us just don t want to take the stuff out there, said one of the husbands.However, there are some husbands who come forward out of their own free will with their weddings.Some would want to surprise their wives with featuring their weddings on the column and telling their story on how they fell in love. I don t see why I shouldn t have the opportunity to show off our wedding in public. It s a noble thing and I think women feel more secure in the marriage knowing that their husband can declare to the high heavens about our wedding, said Khaya Tshuma.Next week the wedding of the week column will be back.&nbsp;