Sikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter CAF Champions League winner with crack DRC side TP Mazembe, Chris Semakweri has urged Caps United to go all guns blazing and let God do the rest when the two sides clash in a blood and thunder second round first leg encounter at Stade TP Mazembe, Lubumbashi, tomorrow afternoon. Makepekepe flies out tomorrow morning on a chartered plane courtesy of new airline Rainbow Airlines. They will be in the skies for 90 minutes and return immediately after the encounter to prepare for the second and final leg next weekend. They just need to do their best and let God do the rest. It s not easy in DRC to grind a result for visiting teams but with the way Caps are playing anything can happen because this is football. I think a draw will be a good result for Caps United, said Semakweri who was part of the invincible TP Mazembe squad that trampled upon mighty Esperance of Tunisia in the Caf Champions League final in 2010, beating them 6-1 on aggregate after a 1-1 away scoreline before finishing them off 5-0 at home.He said TP Mazembe were an experienced side with a number of battle-hardened players who have a never-say-die spirit especially in front of their cheering supporters. It s never an easy outing in the DRC but this is football, anything can happen this is why this match has to be played over 90 minutes beginning at nil all, nothing is impossible and Caps United might just live true to that adage, said Semakweri who signed for Chicken Inn last season.While TP Mazembe remain an African giant, recent events have not been good with reports that the players staged a revolt over money issues. Owner and president Chapwe Katumbi is now exiled in Britain.Caps United will likely travel to the DRC without Ronald Pfumbidzai who has a knee injury picked up in the 2-1 preliminary round aggregate win against Lioli of Lesotho at the National Sports Stadium three weeks ago.Coach Lloyd Chitembwe said he has all his registered players available except Pfumbidzai. The fitness levels are very good maybe save for Ronald who is limping. I am not 100 percent certain but chances are that he might not participate on Sunday. For the rest of the guys we are very, very happy, said Chitembwe. What s driving us more is the desire to want to compete at this level of the game and also it is our dream to compete against the best in Africa. It has been quite an experience for us in our last games and obviously for the upcoming games against TP Mazembe. So I think the boys are physically, technically and tactically at the level that I personally feel they should be. I m sure it s just a football thing. We are a very competitive team and for us I think we have done well in trying to match them. This is the reason why these guys have been working very hard. They are ready to compete come Sunday, I am sure we are ready. &nbsp;