Ntando Van MoyoBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent In his first performance ever since winning the Outstanding Comedian accolade at the National Arts Merit Awards last month, Q Dube proved why he is regarded as the top comedian in the country by many people. Q Dube was performing at the Umahlekisa 4th Anniversary on Friday at Rainbow Hotel s Sethule Bar, in front of a sizeable crowd. Beginning his set Q Dube said he was not going to repeat any jokes as he had heard the complaints of many fans that comedians tend to repeat jokes.He said the jokes he told were new material and he had written them on the bus on his way to Bulawayo from his Harare base. During any Q Dube set your attention will be squarely fixed on stage and listening to him speak and waiting for each and every punch line to his jokes.The punch lines come at the right moment drawing rapturous laughter. Q Dube is a story teller and with storytelling he leaves the juicy part towards the end or in the middle of his jokes. Real life scenarios that he has gone through are the basis of all his jokes.Babongile SikhonjwaAfter the show, Q Dube said it was now back to the drawing board so that he organises a one man show. I was nervous at the beginning of the show because I was trying out new material on the crowd. I was happy with the response. Now it s back to the drawing board for me. I m working on a one man show and that s shaping up, said Q Dube.During the celebrations, Ntando Van Moyo who was nominated for the same award that Q Dube won laid the foundation with a solid set as he did not hold back.He was crude, offensive and shameless in a funny way a signature style to any Ntando Van Moyo show.On her return after a long time on the sidelines, Lady D came back to the stage improved and now able to work the stage and crowd. Babongile Sikhonjwa has become more foul mouthed as ever, with most of his jokes making those used to making bar jokes to cringe.After performing at Rainbow Hotel they took their party to Cubanna, Lagondola and Club 263.&nbsp;