ABOUT half the teams in the Premier Soccer League have failed to meet the initial deadline for submitting their players registration documents. Clubs were given up to February 28 to register players for the 2017 season.PSL clubs are required to register 25 senior players and five junior players who are part of their developmental side in preparation for the 2017 season.However, newboys Yadah, Chapungu, Hwange, Triangle United, ZPC Kariba and Black Rhinos are some of the clubs that missed the player registration deadline.Returnees Bantu Rovers and Shabanie Mine have failed to pay their affiliation fees by the February 28 deadline as required of newly promoted clubs.Clubs can still alter their squads until the player transfer window closes at the end of this month.PSL chief executive Kennedy Ndebele said clubs who have not yet registered would not be cleared to participate in friendly matches. The League will not sanction any club or player in any competition including friendly matches until they have complied with the requirements of registration, he said.FC Platinum, Caps United FC and Ngezi Platinum FC are among the clubs to have signed big names to boost their squads ahead of the new season.Caps United FC have clinched former Harare City midfielder Ronald Chitiyo while FC Platinum have signed Gift Mbweti. Godknows Murwira, Qadr Amin and former Hwange and ZPC Kariba goalkeeper Takabva Mawaya have joined Ngezi Platinum.Hwange administrator Khumbulani Mbano said the club suffered a difficult period as they failed to retain most of their players. As you know we lost most of our players for various reasons. This was difficult for us to meet the deadline as we were building the squad from scratch. We also have a new coach who required some time to assess the players, he said.Chapungu secretary-general, Charles Chikwira said the club appointed a new coach, Tendai Chikuni, who also required time to assess the players. We have appointed a new coach who needed time to assess the abilities of the players before signing them. We have, however, completed the process and have today sent the required documents to PSL, he said.Newly-promoted Black Rhinos governor, Shakeman Chizengwe, said they were in the process of finalising their players and technical staff. We are still finalising the squad. We will send the required documents to PSL by Wednesday 8 March, he said.ZPC Kariba promised to deliver the registration documents today while Yadah Communication Officer Sinani Munyaradzi said he was not in a position to provide information as their chairman was out of the country. I can t give you any information yet as my chairman is out of the country, but the documents will be sent by next week, he said. PSL/Sports Reporter