Cal_Vin Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent RAPPER Cal_Vin has taken his #IboughtUthando album promotion campaign to Harare and according to him, the reception has been overwhelming. Having released the album titled Uthando three weeks ago, Cal_Vin — who has dropped the underscore from his name to make it simpler for fans to locate him on social media — earlier in the week took to the streets of the capital selling copies of his album. Armed with a boom box (portable Bluetooth speaker) courtesy of local company Astrum Technology, Cal_Vin attracted a host of people who were keen to find out what he was up to. “The reception in Harare was overwhelming. We had the boom box with us so we got an instant reaction. This one lady bought the album because she loves the sound and said she didn’t understand Ndebele but would try to learn a few things,” said Cal_Vin. The rapper seems to have been inspired by Sandra Ndebele who was in the capital last week promoting her new single Ingoma by holding flash mobs at nightspots there. Cal_Vin said he had travelled to Harare from Mutare where he had a show. “From the show in Mutare, I decided to pass through Harare to try to sell some copies of the album. I sold a sizeable amount and this has spurred me to do a second round of album sales in the capital,” he said. Meanwhile, Sandra Ndebele is back in Bulawayo from Harare and will this week hold flash mobs at various nightspots around the city to further promote Ingoma. Ndebele, who collaborated with Mzoe 7 on the single, said: “The idea is to market the song through an interactive experience with our audiences. We want to introduce the song to the people with a memorable experience. “Research has proven people will remember more what they see and hear than what they read. That’s why we used this approach because we wanted to leave an indelible mark.” She said after the positive response in Harare, Sandra had decided to use a similar approach in Bulawayo. “I’ll be doing the flash mobs at Hartsfield Tshisanyama, Club 263 and Club Connect among other clubs. People loved the song and the way we promoted it, that’s why we are doing the same for Bulawayo.” @bonganinkunzi