Minister Nomthandazo Eunice MoyoNqobile Tshili, Business Correspondent THE Minister of State for Bulawayo Provincial Affairs, Eunice Nomthandazo Moyo, says the revival of city s industries is hinged on the ongoing ease of doing business which is expected to attract more investors. Addressing journalists in her office at the Mhlahlandlela Government Complex last Thursday, Minister Moyo said Bulawayo was ripe for investment as evidenced by an increase in inquiries from prospective partners.Minister Moyo, who led a delegation of city business executives to Malaysia two weeks ago, said the doing business reform process should be expedited to facilitate quick industry benefit.She called for the removal of inherent bottlenecks such as bureaucracy and delays, which repel investors.Minister Moyo said the participation of the Bulawayo City Council in the investment trip, in particular, was crucial given the council s role in investment. Them being there was an advantage and a blessing because they grasped a lot of things that they didn t know. They saw their weaknesses. Some of the things include delays in processing some of the things by their offices. So we believe where ever they are they are busy with those changes. They should ensure that there is an easy way of doing business, said Minister Moyo.The Malaysian trip is said to have attracted a lot of investor interest with more exchange visits expected in the coming months.Minister Moyo said Government and local authorities should open one stop shop offices where an investor can process his or her papers without any hassles. There must be an open office that allows people to come in and walk out having been assisted. The cases of investors being tossed around from one office to the other should end. We need this investment and we need seriousness and co-operation, said Minister Moyo.She said although Malaysians were keen on investing in the city, their biggest concern was what they will benefit in the process. I m definitely sure that the office of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and other ministries that are involved in the crafting of necessary incentives are doing that so that we can also be attractive as a special economic zone, the Minister said.She said unity would be key in the revival of Bulawayo industries. Some of the investment areas being targeted by council include tourism, construction and infrastructural development.@nqotshili