KhuliyoBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent A year ago, Nkululeko Nkala (pictured) decided to make a comeback to the music scene as a solo artiste after an eight-year hiatus from the music industry. After releasing his debut album Amaphupho Amatsha (New Dreams) at a successful show at Bulawayo Theatre last year, Khuliyo was born.The former Umdumo Wesizwe vocalist launched his career on February 27, 2016 with a nine-track album that had some of the industry s renowned artistes such as Jeys Marabini, Sandra Ndebele and Cheryl Mabaya from Iyasa.Now, a year later, Khuliyo believes lessons learnt in the previous year have spurred him to do more and dream bigger. This year, I ve two dreams. The first one is to fill up a venue during a show that ll have me as the headline act and I believe I can. The second one is to go international, tour here and there so that my music gets known out there, said the ambitious Khuliyo.He said looking back, he was happy to have started his musical career. The one year journey has been humbling and exciting at the same time as I learnt a lot. I started my career as Khuliyo for the wrong reasons as it was more of a protest after frustration from begging those that could sing to manage them. I always thought I could manage and write music so when these people turned me down, I decided to manage myself, said Khuliyo.In retrospect, Khuliyo said there was a lot of room for improvement in his career. I d like to improve the videos that I produced last year. I think I can do better. In one year, I ve had countless shows, collabos and festivals. Every other day I m on stage I strive to be better and it s a new challenge. Khuliyo however bemoaned the lack of support from the city s residents. It s difficult to monetise one s art in Bulawayo. We as local artistes are not appreciated by our own people. It s difficult to convince people to pay for a show or buy the album, he said.For now, Khuliyo is working on his second album. I m back in studio for my second album which I hope will be bigger and better than the last one, he said.@bonganinkunzi