Tobias Mandoreba in Hwange Zimbabwe Football Association (Zifa) Matabeleland North Division Two league held its annual general meeting at Chinotimba Primary School in Victoria Falls on Saturday with calls for clubs to be professional and to utilise structures within the national association for success and growth. Provincial chairperson Dennis Tshuma made the calls at the Indaba attended by all 16 teams from the 2A League from Hwange, Victoria Falls and Dete. A similar meeting is set for Binga this Saturday for the new 2B League. As we prepare for the new season, I urge clubs to be more professional as they take part in the league. As the grassroots it is critical to have properly managed clubs as we hold the key for a bright future in Zimbabwe s football. Clubs also need to fully utilise structures put in place as shortcuts damage our integrity as a league and lead to unnecessary clashes which hinders the smooth running of our league, said Tshuma.A resolution was passed at the meeting to have both old and new teams pay $300 in affiliation fees while players licences are pegged at $5 each, down from $10 and technical staff licences were set at $30 each. As we welcome the new Binga (2B league), we agreed that clubs pay a uniform affiliation fee, but the arrangement is for this year only. Clubs are also paying reduced fees in a number of areas, Tshuma said.Teams were given up to April 21 to pay the fees. Clubs with arrears from last year should clear everything by the 14th of April and also meet this season s deadline for all clubs to pay licence fees for players and technical staff and first part of the affiliation fees by 21 April 2017. New teams in the 2A League are Iwisa Sparrows, Shumba Stars, Technosphere and Flying Elephants. They will join Blackrock, Baobab Rovers, Iwisa, Lukhosi Pirates, Ingagula, Tenex, Classic Luyando, Amagagasi Under-19, Trumus Warriors, Hotspurs Leopards, Corinthians and Hwange Reserves.The Binga League (2B) will have Green Corner, Nabusenga Red Bombers, Siabuwa Warriors, Sinakoma United, Siabanga, Binga Stars, Zambezi Tigers, Sowa, Lunda, Lubanda, Mupambe, Searovers, Lubugiants, Siansali United, Kamativi, Binga Croc Farm and Nagangara Lions.Both leagues will have their opening matches on the weekend of April 29-30.@tobymandox