Ex QLeonard Ncube, Victoria Falls Reporter Budding Victoria Falls hip-hop/kwaito singer Criss Ozzy has collaborated with urban grooves artist Ex Q on a track titled Nomalanga. Criss Ozzy, real name Owen Ndlovu, has completed work on the single which was recorded in Harare and produced by multi-award winning producer Oskid.The artiste said he met Oskid at the ZiFM Stereo studios in Harare and gave him demos for Nomalanga and another track, Kuzolunga. Oskid, after being impressed with my demos invited me to work with him on the two tracks. I decided to collaborate with Ex Q on Nomalanga, a love song done in IsiNdebele and Shona. Kuzolunga seeks to encourage people to be patient even when chips are down, said Criss Ozzy.He said the two singles would be released soon as he is waiting for the green light from his producers.While in Harare, Ozzy had an opportunity to tour Jah Prayzah s Military Touch Movement Studio which produces for Andy Muridzo, Ex Q and Nutty O among others.His manager, Prince Moyo, said more exciting collaborations were in the pipeline hinting that they were working on an album. This year, we ll be doing a lot of collabos to market our music so that we reach a more diverse audience and we ll definitely be releasing an album this year. Ozzy said he was grateful to United Children of Africa co-founder, Douglas Musiringofa who facilitated and sponsored his collaboration with Ex Q.Musiringofa said he had assisted Ozzy to put Matabeleland North province artists on the national map. I saw him perform at our function in December and I fell in love with his music. This sponsorship isn t a once off thing because I ve noticed that he can relate with established artists who can coach and expose him, said Musiringofa. I put $750 for the recording of the two tracks and all costs related to the collabo. Ex Q is willing to continue helping him and expose him to other artists. He s also in contact with seasoned artists such as Andy Muridzo and Jah Prayzah who he met at their Military Touch Movement Studio. All this association puts Matabeleland North on the picture and it s our wish that artists from this region can penetrate the local entertainment scene and the South African market. Criss Ozzy, whose music career was inspired by Teargas from South Africa has worked with now defunct groups Vibe and Set and MeJozy as well as Bulawayo s hip hop king, Cal_Vin.@ncubeleon