Pattern and Style, Yoliswa DubeI ALWAYS wondered why this friend of mine had such good skin. For a man, his skin is pretty flawless.I never bothered to ask what he uses on his skin because well, it was really none of my business.It wasn t until recently that he passively mentioned his vanishing cream was out and he needed to visit a pharmacy to make a purchase.I thought I hadn t heard him right. Vanishing cream? Yes, he uses flipping vanishing cream!It finally made sense. He controls his skin s oiliness with vanishing cream, that s why it is so flawless.I got over my shock pretty quickly and thought, well, there s really nothing wrong with a man who takes good care of his skin.If he s going to wear a hot blazer, a lavish watch and Tom Ford s Black Orchid, why shouldn t the nigger have good skin too?He might as well get it all right! Few men really care about what they apply on their faces. They think it s unmanly. But I honestly think there s nothing wrong with a man who washes his face twice a day and uses shine control creams or sunscreen.Good skin is an integral part of looking good because it has a bearing on your confidence and ultimately how you conduct yourself among people. To take care of your skin best, begin with adopting good hygiene practices.Don t use a towel at all on your face. It s bizarre, I know but towels retain some bacteria after washes so you don t want to take the bacteria on the rest of the body to your face.It may seem unnecessary to mention but always wash your face first before the rest of the body, when the water is still clean and untainted by other products.Unless of course if you re using the shower. Find a good scrub that will help clean your skin further. It ll take away the extra oils and unclog your pores.Clogged pores cause pimples and black heads.At least twice a week, make sure you scrub your skin-gently. A mixture of mealie-meal and water works perfectly fine as a scrub.Depending on your skin type, invest in a moisturiser that will adequately hydrate your skin. Tissue oil is an excellent way of rehydrating skin. It ll leave your skin smooth and plump as well as even it out.One important aspect to understand about your skin is that it requires patience. Once you start on a new skin regime, give it time to work unless if you react. Please abort mission if you develop rashes, pimples or any other irregularities.It s key that you also realise that a lot of what your skin appears like is as a result of your diet and intake of water.Drink lots and lots of water, it ll clear your skin in ways you won t believe! Watch your intake of sugar and fatty foods; they have a way of messing up your skin.Another number one enemy of good skin is fast food, try limiting yourself on that. Remember always, your skin will react to how you treat it. Treat it with respect and you ll enjoy it.Nothing irritates me like a man who keeps the nail on his pinky finger long. What the hell is the purpose of that nail? I dread to think what it touches and the dirt it retains.Get your toe and finger nails cut regularly. If you don t own a nail cutter, I wouldn t judge you if I saw you at the manicurist.Keeping your nails clean and short is an integral part of personal grooming. Just like how you d get your hair cut and your beard shaved, cut your damn nails!Never wear the same pair of socks without washing it first.Your feet sweat and sweat stinks.No matter how clean your feet are, they ll smell if you wear dirty socks.And please, don t keep your dirty socks in your shoes have the decency to dunk them in the laundry basket.Your shoes smell not because your feet stink but because you wear dirty socks and keep them in your shoes when you remove them. Your shoes really don t get the chance to breath.Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa, visit my blog,www.stayera247.blogspot.com or like my Facebook page Pattern &amp; Style.