Cynthia Dube, Chronicle Reporter THE Zanu-PF youth league in Bulawayo yesterday donated clothes and volunteered to pay school fees for 10 children who are staying at Mustard Seed Communities Children s home. The children are learning at schools which include Montrose Girls High, Townsend High, Gifford High, Empandeni High, Baines Junior and King George VI Primary School.The youths donated clothes, sports kits and 10 soccer balls to 52 children who are staying at the home which is located in Woodville suburb.Zanu-PF Bulawayo Youth Entrepreneurs Initiative vice president, Mr Gift Muhomba, said they will pay school fees for the 10 children up to tertiary level. For now we will pay school fees for 10 children but we are looking forward to selecting more pupils in other homes so that we can pay school fees and cater for them. I am also encouraging other stakeholders to assist less privileged children. Youths must unite and work together in order to give back to the community, he said.Zanu-PF s city centre chairman Cde Esau Munangwa said the party plans to create employment for the less privileged children in future. We will pay their school fees until they finish their degrees. After that, we will assist them to get jobs. On Friday this week, the home will be having sports day and we will be here to give prizes to the best athletes, said Cde Munangwa.Mustard Seed Communities Children s Home s public relations officer Ms Thandeka Khumalo told The Chronicle that the institution was grateful to receive donations for the children. We are very humbled and very excited to get people who assist us. This home is keeping children with special needs and we can t always afford to meet their demands. These kids have different backgrounds, some were dumped by their parents, said Ms Nkomo. The parents used to come and visit them but later they gave up. Most of the children can not walk and some at the age of 10 years still need disposable diapers. In January this year, the Zanu-PF Bulawayo Youth Entrepreneurs Initiative donated 260 food hampers and 250 T-shirts to patients at Mpilo Central Hospital s paediatric unit.Each patient, aged between three years and 12 years, received a T-shirt and a hamper containing a 500ml of soft drink, an apple, a banana and a bunch of grapes. @cynthiamthembo1&nbsp;