Hebert DickAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter ZIFA has warned the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe (Fuz) against encroaching into the national association s football business. In a statement posted on the Zifa website on Tuesday, the association said Fuz, a trade union that represents football players, must stick to its mandate and stop intruding into its footballing business. Zifa would like to categorically state that it fully recognises and respects the Footballers Union of Zimbabwe (Fuz) as a trade union for players. However, the association strongly urges Fuz to stick to its mandate, while avoiding encroaching into association s football business. The Zifa Player Status Committee is the only football authority sanctioned to deliberate on disputes involving players and clubs, read the statement.When contacted to clarify the statement, Zifa spokesman Xolisani Gwesela said: We as Zifa have great respect for Fuz as a players trade union. However, there is a demarcation between what these two bodies (Fuz and Zifa) ought to do and what not to do and we should stick to that. I can t say more to that as I believe the association s statement was self-explanatory. Fuz vice-president Herbert Dick said he was puzzled by Zifa s statement. This is the first time I am hearing about this statement and I don t know what Zifa is referring to. I will have to speak to Fuz president maybe he has seen it, said Dick.Efforts to get a comment from Fuz president Desmond Maringwa were fruitless as his phone rang unanswered.In the same statement, Zifa advised all football stakeholders involved in any player transfers to engage bona fide intermediaries, duly registered and licensed by the association. Zifa strongly warns all individuals and corporates masquerading as intermediaries to desist from handling player transfers, failure of which will force the association to invoke football statutes on the offending parties. Zifa recently invited applications from individuals and corporates interested in becoming intermediaries, and all who are interested are encouraged to apply for licensing in order to avoid punitive action, the statement read.@khumzallen