On the streets of the Zimbabwean city of Bulawayo, a group of men and women commemorate the life of King Mzilikazi, the founder of the Ndebele kingdom (file photo) I have travelled across the length and breadth of Africa and I have not seen one person who is a beggar, who is a thief such wealth I have seen in this country, such high moral values, people of such calibre, that I do not think we would ever conquer this country, unless we break the very back bone of this nation, which is her spiritual and cultural heritage and therefore, I propose that we replace her old and ancient education system, her culture, for if the Africans think that all that is foreign and English is good and greater than their own, they will lose their self-esteem, their native culture and they will become what we want them, a truly dominated nation. (Lord Macaulay s Address to the British Parliament on 2nd February 1835) Africa is still lying ready for us; it is our duty to take it. It is our duty to seize every opportunity of acquiring more territory and we should keep this one idea steadily before our eyes: that more territory simply means more of the Anglo-Saxon race, more of the best, the most human, most honourable race the world possesses Remember that you are an Englishman, and have consequently won first prize in the lottery of life. (Cecil John Rhodes).(Letter from King Leopold II of Belgium to Colonial Missionaries, 1883) Reverends, Fathers and Dear Compatriots: The task that is given to fulfil is very delicate and requires much tact. You will go certainly to evangelise, but your evangelisation must inspire above all Belgium interests. Your principal objective in our mission in the Congo is never to teach the niggers to know God, this they know already. They speak and submit to a Mungu, one Nzambi, one Nzakomba, and what else I don t know. They know that to kill, to sleep with someone else s wife, to lie and to insult is bad.Have courage to admit it: you are not going to teach them what they know already. Your essential role is to facilitate the task of administrators and industrials which means you will go to interpret the gospel in the way it will be the best to protect your interests in that part of the world. For these things, you have to keep watch on disinteresting our savages from the richness that is plenty [in their underground. To avoid that, they get interested in it, and make you murderous] competition and dream one day to overthrow you. Your knowledge of the gospel will allow you to find texts ordering, and encouraging your followers to love poverty, like Happier are the poor because they will inherit the heaven and It s very difficult for the rich to enter the kingdom of God. You have to detach from them and make them disrespect everything which gives courage to affront us.I make reference to their mystic system and their war fetish-warfare protection which they pretend not to want to abandon and you must do everything in your power to make it disapear. Your action will be directed essentially to the younger ones, for they won t revolt when the recommendation of the priest is contradictory to their parents teaching.The children have to learn to obey what the missionary recommends, who is the father of their soul. You must singularly insist on their total submission and obedience, avoid developing the spirit in the schools, teach students to read and not to reason. There, dear patriots are some of the principles that you must apply. You will find many other books, which will be given to you at the end of this confidence. Evangelise the niggers so that they stay forever in submission to the white colonialists, so they never revolt against the restraints they are undergoing. Recite everyday- Happy are those who are weeping because the kingdom of God is for them. Convert always the blacks by using the whip. Keep their women in nine months of submission to work freely for us. Force them to pay you in sign of recognition-goats, chicken or eggs every time you visit their villages. And make sure that niggers never become rich.Sing every day that it s impossible for the rich to enter heaven. Make them pay tax each week at Sunday mass.Use the money supposed for the poor, to build flourishing business centres. Institute a confessional system, which allows you to be good detectives denouncing any black that has a different consciousness contrary to that of the decision-maker. Teach the niggers to forget their heroes and to adore only ours. Never present a chair to a black that comes to visit you. Don t give him more than one cigarette. Never invite him for dinner even if he gives you a chicken every time you arrive at his house. The above speech which shows the real intention of the Christian missionary journey in Africa was exposed to the world by Mr Moukouani Muikwani Bukoko, born in the Congo in 1915 and who in 1935 while working in the Congo, bought a second hand Bible from a Belgian priest who forgot the speech in the Bible. Dr Chiedozie Okoro.We should note:1) That all missionaries carried out and still carry out, that mandate. We are only lucky to have found King Leopold s articulation of the aim of all Christian imperialist missionaries to Africa.2) Even the African converts who today manage the older churches in Africa (the priests, bishops, Archbishops, Cardinals etc of the Roman and Protestant sects) and especially also those who evangelise Born again Christianity, still serve the same mandate. Which is why they demonise African gods and Anglicise African names and drop the names of African deities which form part of African names; and still attack and demolish the African shrines that have managed to survive, e.g. Okija.3) Those Africans who voluntarily converted to Christianity before the colonial conquest such as Affonso I of the BaKongo in the 15th century probably did not discern the purpose of the brand of Christianity that was supplied to them. Which was probably why they fell easy prey to the Missionaries and the white traders and pirates who followed them. But their Japanese counterparts probably did discern the game, even without access to some version of Leopold s letter. But even if the Japanese Shoguns did not intuit what Leopold makes explicit, they clearly realised the danger of Japanese converts to Christianity forming a filth column within Japanese society and state, a fifth column loyal to their co-religionists in Europe.To rid Japan of that danger, in the 16th century, the Shoguns began their expulsion of Portuguese and Spanish missionaries on the grounds that they were forcing Japanese to become Christian, teaching their disciples to wreck temples, taking and trading slaves, etc. Then, in 1556, it became clear to the Japanese authorities that Christianisation had been a prelude to Spanish conquest of other lands; and it quickly dawned on them that a fifth column loyal to Rome and controlled by the priests of a foreign religion was a clear and present danger to the sovereignty of newly unified Japan. Soon after, the persecution and suppression of Japanese Christians began.Early in the 17th century, sensing the danger from a creed that taught obedience to foreign priests rather than the Japanese authorities, all missionaries were ordered to leave and all Japanese were ordered to register at the Buddhist temples.When Japanese Christians took part in a rebellion, foreign priests were executed, the Spanish were expelled and Japanese Christians were forbidden to travel abroad. After another rebellion, largely by Christians, was put down, the Japanese Christians were suppressed and their descendants were put under close state surveillance for centuries thereafter. In the 1640s all Japanese suspected of being Christians were ruthlessly exterminated. Thus did Japan, by 1650, save itself from the first European attempt to mentally subvert, conquer and colonise it.4) The African captives who were taken abroad and enslaved and the Africans at home after the European conquest, having already been forcibly deprived of their autonomy, were in no political position to resist Christianisation. Thus the Christianity still practised in all of the African-American diaspora, just as that in the African homeland since the start of the 20th century, continues to carry out the Leopoldian mandate. Hence, for example, whereas the White Born-Agains of the USA, when in the US Navy ships in World War Two, sang: Praise the Lord, And pass the ammunition, the attitude of African Born-Again converts today is best summed up as: Praise the Lord, And lie down for the manna. Thanks to a century or more of this Leopold-mandated missionary mind control. African Christians are not an activist, self-helping, economically engaged, politically resolute, let alone militant bunch. Hence their putting up with all manner of mistreatment and exploitation by their misrulers, white and black.The most they are disposed to do their misrulers is to admonish them to fear God! as one protester s miserable placard read in last week s Lagos demonstration against the latest of the murderous fuel price hikes by the OBJ Misgovernment. The idea of an uprising to tame their misrulers is alien to the religiously opiated frame of mind of the Nigerians. The lesson in the contrast between an African that the Christian missionaries brainwashed and subverted, and a Japan where this brainwashing and subversion was forcibly prevented, is stark and clear. What then must Africans of today begin to do to save themselves from brainwashing by their White World enemies here on earth? That is the question.