Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent A 34-YEAR-OLD Bulilima man has been arrested for fatally assaulting a 51-year-old neighbour in a fight over a woman that they were both having an affair with. Methuseli Moyo of Tjankwa area appeared before Plumtree magistrate Mr Taurai Mawere facing murder charges. He was remanded in custody to May 8.Mr Mawere advised Moyo to apply for bail at the High Court.Moyo allegedly struck Chrispen Ncube with a log and knobkerrie several times all over the body until he lost consciousness. He then dragged Ncube s body to his homestead where he dumped it before fleeing the scene.Prosecuting, Mr Elisha Mazorodze said the offence occurred on April 18 and Moyo fled to a friend s homestead where he was arrested on April 22. On 18 April in Gotha Village in Tjankwa Ward, Moyo struck Ncube with a log and knobkerrie on the head, both legs and on his back in a dispute over a woman that they were both dating, Ms Siphilisiwe Sibanda. Ncube sustained serious injuries as a result of the attack. Moyo then dragged Ncube who had lost consciousness to his homestead and left him in his bedroom hut where he later died. Moyo fled the scene and went into hiding at a friend s homestead. He was later arrested following a tip off from villagers, said Mr Mazorodze.He said police found Ncube s body in his bedroom hut after they had gone to his homestead to arrest him for destroying a door at Ms Sibanda s homestead.Mr Mazorodze said prior to the incident, Ncube went to Ms Sibanda s homestead to confront her over a relationship she had with Moyo but he failed to locate her.He said Ncube then met Moyo walking with his girlfriend as he was going back to his homestead resulting in an altercation.A village head from the area, Mr Norman Dube, had said the altercation between the two men started after Ms Sibanda dumped Ncube and started a new relationship with Moyo.He said this made Ncube furious as he kept demanding reconciliation with Ms Sibanda. He said two weeks before he was killed, Ncube had threatened to burn his ex-girlfriend to death in her bedroom hut for dumping him. @DubeMatutu&nbsp;