Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter CHIEF Saba of Binga has urged the Government to help urgently contain the anthrax outbreak that has killed one person and 16 hippos in his area. Anthrax-infected hippos started dying from March 27 and some people ate meat from their carcasses after they were found dead in Binga s Mlibizi area.Anthrax is a life-threatening infectious disease caused by bacteria that normally affects animals. Health officials said they were facing a challenge in fighting the outbreak as some villagers were not opening up or being honest as to whether they consumed the meat from the hippos or not.Chief Saba said many including his family also ate the meat from the dead hippos. Almost everyone in my community, including my own children and wives consumed the affected meat. Many are sick now and we are just praying to the Almighty for their recovery. It is unbearable to see everyone around you showing signs and symptoms of some ailments. Imagine when a whole family is admitted in a clinic or is sick. It is a moment of sadness in Saba and we hope the experts bring the rightful medication to treat everyone, he said.Chief Saba said so far they had lost one young man and were praying the situation doesn t worsen. A man who showed signs and symptoms of anthrax admitted to have eaten hippo meat which he was given by a relative living in Saba village. The deceased lived in a neighbouring village, he said.A full Binga Rural Council meeting was held last Thursday where various departments were engaged to assist in the fight against anthrax.Matabeleland North Provincial Medical Director Dr Nyasha Masuka said the Ministry of Health and Child Care, Binga CPU, Binga RDC, Environment Management Authourity, ZimParks, traditional leaders were working tirelessly to control the outbreak as well as save lives. One person has died and we have so far treated 11 people from Siansundu village for anthrax and our teams are closely monitoring 58 others who also ate meat from the dead hippos for any signs or symptoms of the disease. The samples were sent to the National Reference Laboratory in Harare for confirmation, he said.Dr Masuka added that 1, 5 kilogrammes of hippo meat was found mixed with 45 kilogrammes of goat meat on sale in a butchery at Binga Centre and has since been destroyed.@winnie_masara