Allen Khumalo, Sports Reporter ALL is set for the Coca Cola Four-Minute Mile semi-finals at White City Stadium today. Twenty-eight athletes will take part in the semis where the best 20 runners will proceed to the final to be held at the ZITF Main Arena tomorrow.Defending champion Elijah Mabhunu said he is ready to defend his title despite an injury he suffered at the beginning of the year. I know it won t be any easy road, but I have been practising a lot and I am now ready to defend my title. However, I am concerned by an injury I suffered while competing in another competition. For now I m not feeling any pain, but I m afraid I might experience it in the middle of the race, Mabhunu said.He feels his biggest threat will be ZRP s Trust Chidomaya, whom be believes has the potential to wrestle the title from him. Being champion is not easy because everyone wants to beat you and at the same time people will be expecting more from you. There is always that pressure, but I have managed to deal with that through hard work. I know there are guys like Trust, who are going to make the race even harder, but I m prepared for the challenge. Not that I m looking down on others because the fact that they qualified for the semis means they have the potential to be winners, said Mabhunu.Mabhunu won last year s edition after crossing the line in a time of four minutes 14.77 seconds.He said other runners he will be looking out for include Hwange Colliery Athletics Club s Phathisa Ngawabi, Dumo Mkhwananzi from Sparrows and Wellington Varevi from Amen Academy.Semi-final listPhathisa Ngwabi (Hwange Colliery Athletics), Titus Nyathi (Bindura), Titus Nyathi (LM Academy), Thando Maphosa (Sparrows), Caliscious Moyo (LM Academy), Ammon Moyo (Sparrows), Trust Chidomaya (ZRP) Dumo Mkhwananzi (Sparrows), Willard Mutasa (HQ1 Brigade), Nyasha Mutsetse (Independent), Levinson Mapfuwa (Black Rhinos), Trust Hove (Black Rhinos), Tendai Zimuto (Black Rhinos), Blessing Whyson (Black Rhinos), Nomore Wikiri (ZPCS), Nyasha Chiuswa (Amen Avademy), Vareri Wellington (Amen Academy), Bornface Jeki (Black Rhinos), Point Chanza (ZPCS), Paul Mhizha (ZPCS), Jonathan Chinyoka (ZPCS), Tapiwa Chineka (Black Rhinos), Blessing Chidziva (ZRP Fairbridge), Elijah Mabhunu (ZRP Fairbridge), Isaac Mpofu (ZRP Fairbridge), Ngonidzashe Ncube (ZRP Fairbridge), Jacob Mugomeri (Zimpost), Vineal Moyo (Blanket Mine), Jari Munyaradzi. @khumzallen.