Miss Nust contestantsBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent FORMER Miss Nust 2015 and reigning Miss Tourism Zimbabwe Ashley Morgen will today grace the Miss Nust 2017 pageant in Bulawayo. The modelling contest will be held at the Nust Ceremonial Hall starting at 7PM. Fourteen models are expected to strut their stuff on the ramp.Entrance has been pegged at $2 for Nust students and $5 for the public. Those who want VIP seats will have to part with $10. Entertainment will be provided by Takura and Boom Beto who will be making his third appearance in as many weeks in Bulawayo. Supporting acts include DJs Nospa, Mzoe, Tony Aykay, Teflon and Burning Bush. Nust will be represented by its students, Img, Senko, Ntm, D Trail, Kenyata and Rags to Swag who will also showcase their talent.Terrence Shoko, president of the Nust SRC organisers of the pageant said Morgen, a final year student at Nust studying marketing, has been hard at work, grooming and preparing the models for the finale.The finalists are Karen Banda, Tendai Sibanda, Thelma Ncube, Edah Kahembe, Cynthia Maphosa, Samantha Moyo, Ethel Ndava, Terai Moyo, Buhlebakhe Ncube, Thembelihle Ncube, Samkelisumusa Makombe, Mitchelle Chikwengo, Tatenda Muzangwa and Alice Chauya.The student who will be crowned queen will go on to represent the university at the Miss Universities pageant later on in the year. She will also walk away with a prize money of $250 with $200 set aside for the first princess and $150 for the second princess.Shoko said all was set for the pageant. Preparations for the pageant have been going on well. The 14 beautiful models are ready to compete as they ve been prepared by Ashley who mentored them well, said Shoko.He said Morgen came in handy as she also gave the SRC direction on how to run the pageant through her vast knowledge and experience. Ashley Morgen mobilised a great team of former models to also assist us with preparations for the contest. We ve benefited from her vast experience which even attracted the city s big modelling agencies and great names in the modelling industry. She also ensured that the models have their make-up done by experts, got a choreographer and cosmetic hampers for the winners among a lot of things, said Shoko.He said voting for the People s Choice Award and Miss Personality was underway. People can log onto our Miss NUST Facebook page. There are pictures of all the finalists and they are free to vote for their favourite. The one who ll get many likes automatically becomes the People s Choice. The deadline for voting is on Saturday, just before the event kicks off at 7PM. Shoko said they had invited industry gurus to judge the event as they want it to attain a professionalism outlook. We re going to have professional judges who re not from Nust. We want professionalism simply because the event has attained the highest level of respect in industry as one that produces models that go far. Outgoing Miss Nust 2016, Tarisai Manenga, will hand over the crown to whoever wins. An after-party will be held at Club Eden.&nbsp;