Khama BilliatKHAMA Billiat says that he has spent much of this season searching for himself the player that he was when he won the Premier Soccer League s player of the season award in 2015-16. This is not to say that Billiat is not in line for the award again this year.He is Sundowns joint-top scorer this season with Percy Tau on nine goals.It says something for the quality of Billiat that he can be a little off colour and still be one of the best players in the country.And there s even debate about whether Billiat is even off colour.His coach Pitso Mosimane says he s asked Billiat to play a different role less chasing goals into the box and more playing around the box turning provider.The forward s 13 assists are easily the most for Downs to Tau s eight.Like any fine player though, and the little Zimbabwean with a touch of genius is one of those, Billiat is not quite satisfied.It is revealing that asked where the full-flowing Billiat of 2015-16 is he replied: I also want to see him I ve been looking for him. Billiat refuses to put his quieter form down to a failure for overseas transfers to materialise after cleaning up the PSL s player players player and midfielder of the season awards last season.This while he watched teammate Keagan Dolly find a lucrative move to Montpellier in France s Ligue 1. No no it s not that Billiat said. I just need to work a bit harder like my coach has been saying. And try to create more combinations and working together and understand each other better as a team. It (not going overseas) didn t (affect my form). I don t believe it has had something to do with my performance because it didn t happen once. Even in previous seasons there were times where it looked like I would leave the team and I didn t and I still kept on going. So I wouldn t look at it that way, he said.Billiat had one of his best performances of 2016-17 as the architect, including two goals, of Sundowns 5-0 deconstruction of SuperSport United last week.Sundowns teammate Sibusiso Vilakazi, who dominated the 2013-14 PSL awards while at Bidvest Wits, can attest to how difficult it can be to maintain standards once you have become a marked man in the league.Mostly though it is just a more refined circumspect Billiat we are seeing this season even if he demands more from himself.There are other contenders for the 2016-17 player of the season Tau and Cape Town City s Lebogang Manyama perhaps stand out.But Billiat s name seems certain to be among the nominations again come late May. TMG Sport