Methembe NdlovuAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter BANTU Rovers president Methembe Ndlovu says they are in no hurry to appoint a new coach following a Zifa directive that all Premiership head honchos possess at least a Caf A Licence in line with the new club licensing system. Before the start of the season, the club was eyeing Warriors legend Agent Sawu for the role, but Zifa deemed his English Football Association International Coaching badge inferior to the Caf A Licence.Ndlovu told a media briefing yesterday that Rovers were looking for a coach that shares a similar vision with the club &#8211; of grooming young players. I think you would agree that finding a coach for a club like Bantu is not like any other club and it s always going to be difficult. We are looking for a unique person. This club is more than just wins and losses; we are trying to develop young people to become men and trying to nurture them to qualify for other opportunities beyond just the win and lose column, said Ndlovu. As much as we are trying to look for a coach, we are not putting ourselves under pressure to do that. We need to get to know that person and see whether they are fit for the club. We have to consider not only the technical aspect, but other things that are important to the club like our values, grooming young men, preparing them for professional careers or for scholarships. That is going to take time, but I think what needs to be clear is that we are doing everything we can to meet the Zifa requirements. But at the same time we don t want to hurry too much at the expense of the club, he said.Ndlovu, who is currently the club s interim coach, was in charge when his outfit suffered a 5-0 drubbing by former champions, Chicken Inn, at Luveve Stadium on Saturday.He said they had received a number of applications from different people. The applications are there, but not everyone is fit to coach the club. So to really find a leader of our group who fits that is not an easy thing, particularly looking at qualifications. I believe there are more than 40 qualified coaches out there, but we are not hurrying the process. It s going to be difficult to find someone in a short space to fit in to what we are looking for. We are, however, committed to complying with the directive from Zifa, Ndlovu said. @khumzallen