Tendai ChikuniLovemore Zigara in Gweru Chapungu 1-1 Yadah FC CHAPUNGU put up perhaps their best display so far but still failed to beat new boys Yadah, as both sides settled for a draw in a Castle Lager Premiership encounter at Ascot Stadium yesterday.Chapungu became the first side to score against Yadah, surging ahead in the 49th minute through Allan Tavarwisa. Yadah levelled matters in the 77th minute through a Leeroy Mavhunga penalty.The airmen were left cursing their gods after dominating proceedings for the better part of the match, with striker Maxwell Mavuto missing a penalty in the 23rd minute.Ian Nyoni, who had terrorised Yadah defenders, flighted a cross that was handled in the box by Munyaradzi Nyenye and referee Cuthbert Zigwali pointed to the spot. Mavuto took the spot kick, but Yadah goalkeeper Tafadzwa Dube was equal to the task.Chapungu were, however, rewarded for their hard work when Nyoni delivered an inviting cross that was met on the volley by Tavarwisa, beating Dube.As the game wore on, Chapungu resorted to defending their one goal advantage, which virtually handed the initiative to the visitors, who were rewarded when William Ngonya was adjudged to have handled in the box. Mavhunga made no mistake from the penalty spot with 13 minutes still to play.Chapungu coach Tendai Chikuni felt his side could have won the match, but expressed satisfaction with the result. It was a game we should have won, but we wasted a lot of chances. The good thing is that the strikers are now converting chances. Supporters need to be patient and there will be no talk of relegation this season, said Chikuni.His Yadah counterpart Jairos Tapera was equally satisfied with the result. This was a tough match and I should give credit to Chapungu. However, I am happy with the draw, especially playing away from home, Tapera said.Meanwhile under pressure Triangle coach Taurai Mangwiro came out of Maglas with a smile on his face after his charges battled to get a point in the Castle Lager Premiership tie against FC Platinum yesterday.At the National Sports Stadium, Harare City coach Mike Madzivanyika has conceded he is losing patience with his men who fail to win yet again after being held by Bulawayo City in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League tie yesterday.Madzivanyika said his players were letting him down. We missed a lot of chances and this is the third straight draw, it doesn t make anything better. We created chances but we could not bury them and that cost us once again. I think by the time we face ZPC Kariba we would have made up for that, said Madzivanyika.Bulawayo City coach Mandla Mpofu was a happy man. We are content with the underdog tag and as a team, which is rebuilding, we are happy that we have senior players who are guiding the juniors well. We are happy that we are managing to pick up points in most of our games both at home and away, Mpofu said.@lavuzigara1