The Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Dr Chris MushohweLeonard Ncube in Victoria Falls TREASURY has promised to release $4 million for outstanding equipment to ensure that completed digital transmitter base stations are switched on. Speaking during a tour of Manjolo Base Station, which has been completed about 40km outside Binga on Saturday, Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Minister Dr Chris Mushohwe said about $16 million is required to clear a debt owed to Zim-Digital contractors from China.The Minister said Treasury has promised to disburse $4 million any time from now which will be enough to effect release of outstanding equipment needed to switch on those stations that have been completed.Dr Mushohwe was speaking as the Zim-Digital team, comprising Deputy Minister Cde Thokozile Mathuthu, Permanent Secretary Mr George Charamba and senior officials from the Broadcasting Authority of Zimbabwe (BAZ), ZBC, Transmedia Corporation and the Zimbabwe Film and Television School of Southern Africa, completed a three-day visit to Matabeleland North Province as part of a nationwide drive to mobilise content producers for the digitisation process.The team visited Victoria Falls, Hwange and Binga. This is a very exciting site. The last time we came here the security enclosure, generator platform, equipment and dish platforms weren t here but now they are intact. I m told the equipment, generators and other equipment for the platform is there and we are just waiting to put the prefab structure that will house the equipment, said Dr Mushohwe.He said Government is happy with progress at some base stations. I think I m fairly happy that this place is ready. We re only waiting for the disbursement of the plus $4 million that was allocated. The money is there and I spoke to Finance Minister (Patrick Chinamasa) and Central Bank Governor (John Mangudya) who assured me that as they mobilise money from the sale of tobacco, that process will be possible soon. We are happy we are going to be able to pay the contractor whom we are grateful to. Dr Mushohwe said about $16 million owed to the Chinese contractor was due in September last year.The digitalisation equipment including TV sets is the final consignment needed to complete the project. The $4 million plus which is to be paid needs to go to China for equipment. The other one was for civil works and that has been paid. Otherwise once that is paid up, the equipment that is warehoused in China and locally will be released. We need just to transmit that money, once we do that we will get this equipment so that we start triggering certain sites, said Dr Mushohwe.He said they will not wait for all base stations to be completed but will immediately switch on the ones that are ready once the money is paid.The Government is working on 48 base stations, 24 of which were done from scratch while the others were upgraded.Dr Mushohwe said Government saved about $300 000 per site by refurbishing some of the old sites where it eventually used $50 000 per site compared to $350 000 that would have been paid for each.@ncubeleon