BCC Ladies were crowned champions last year&nbsp;Nkosilathi Sibanda, Sports Correspondent BCC Ladies, the reigning champions of the prestigious Zimbabwe International Trade Fair Ingwebu Tug of War tournament are once again garnering for honours at this year s clash. The team is fast becoming a power house in the women s competition of the game, dominating all major competitions on offer. With tournament sponsors Ingwebu Breweries having upped the prize money to $800 this year, it is expected that BCC Ladies and other contestants will pull out a good show.The runners up in the same category will get $600 while the team that finishes third pockets $400. According to the sponsors, the participating teams will also get Ingwebu products.In 2016, the Bulawayo team was the toast of the tournament winning the hearts of spectators that thronged the ZITF main arena to witness the contest of pulling the rope.In their quest to defend the title, BCC Ladies will have to ease past teams such as Tafara, CBZ, Mutare, Glow and Zesa Bulawayo.Previously, the road to victory came easy for the Bulawayo side, but the game might be different this year as they are not the only strong team in the pool.Speaking to Chronicle Sport yesterday during a mini training session, Samu Dladla the team s spokesperson said their intention is to pull the rope to glory. We are ready to give other teams a good show by winning the tournament. All the ladies in our team know how special it is to win this. We did it last year and there is no turning back. What we are proud of is that this year the prizes have been increased. This inspires us at BCC Ladies because it shows that now women are recognised in the sport. Our promise is to clinch the tournament s big prize. We are geared for that, said Dladla.Ingwebu ZITF Tug of War Championships full drawMenGroup A: FBC A, Delta A, Ingwebu B, ZPC Munyati B, Mutare City, How Mine AGroup B: Ingwebu A, Delta B, CBZ B, Zesa Bulawayo, Hwange AGroup C: Zesa Bulawayo A, Khami A, Hwange B, ZENT Harare, CBZ A, Chloride,Group D: Exide, How Mine B, ZPC Munyati A, FBC B, Khami B, BCCWomenGroup A: Ingwebu, BCC B, Tafara , Glow, Zesa BulawayoGroup B: BCC A, CBZ, Zesa Harare, Mutare&nbsp;