Oliver Keith with his girlfriend Rumbie SokoShowbiz Reporter AFTER realising more and more people are being taken for a ride each day, model-cum comedian Oliver Keith has set out to challenge couples to share their pictures on his Facebook thread to show off their love and at the same time affirm their bond. According to Keith, those who are in relationships and have no pictures with their better halves which they can publicly share are probably cheating/being cheated on or are dating married people. Some of you are in relationships and yet you have no picture with your significant other, or rather you choose not to post them. The only pictures you have are collages. I know pretty well why you only have collages. I ll spell it to you. It s simply because your boyfriend or girlfriend will not allow you to post a real picture of you two, wrote Oliver Keith. Every time your boyfriend or girlfriend takes a picture of you two with his or her phone, he or she doesn t send the pictures to you because he/she knows you ll post it on Facebook or Instagram. Your relationship is secret because your boyfriend/girlfriend belongs to someone else and most of the times you know it. Prove me wrong and post a picture of you with your person. Keith was first to post a picture with his girlfriend, Rumbie Soko whom he has been dating for years. He has always gone public with his relationship, something he wants most people to emulate instead of wasting time loving the wrong people.Immediately after, his followers followed suit posting intimate pictures with their lovers. It was more like an anniversary for some who also used the opportunity to reflect on their relationship as they posted the pictures.Some shy ladies who could have been single or victims of Keith s post posted pictures of themselves cuddling teddy bears or their children while some put up pictures of celebrities.One of those who put up a teddy bear was Marygrace Chipunza who captioned the image five years and counting . . . Others were quick to mention that the challenge, which has since been coined the #OliverKeithCoupleChallenge was a dangerous game as some people could be caught cheating.Commented Bakani Ngulani: Abanye bazabanjwa la (Some people will be caught). Abigail MaGolide Tshuma concurred: Uqinisile wena. Abanye sizithi singa main house kanti singama side. Uzavela umnikazi. (You re telling the truth. Some of us think we re the main girlfriend while we re the side chics. The main girlfriend will reveal herself) .Social media has for many proved to be their Achilles heel as once they show off pictures of their loved ones, it opens a Pandora s Box.For some like psychologist and writer Gwendolyn Seidman, a person refusing to post pictures of his/her better half on social media is a red flag. Those who re least satisfied with their relationships are the most likely to keep their intimate relationships private and not share them on social media, she posted on Psychology today. This means there s nothing in the relationship that they re proud to share and show off to the public whether on social media or through public displays of affection. According to bustle.com: If he/she refuses to change their Facebook relationship status from single or post any photos of you two together anywhere, then that is saying something bigger. When you re excited about someone, you want to shout it from the rooftops or in our case, the Internet. So it can be a warning sign when your significant other doesn t ever do that. If you want your partner to show more social media PDA, then simply communicate that to him or her. The challenge has however proved to be an eye opener to those in relationships as some are already questioning where they stand in their various relationships.&nbsp;