Cde Dennis NdlovuPamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE Zanu-PF Bulawayo provincial executive was yesterday attacked by members who accused them of fanning factionalism and creating confusion in the party during a stormy constituency meeting in Nkulumane suburb. The party members, in the no-holds-barred meeting at Pasika Church, told the provincial leadership that the misconduct and disloyalty by some in the party was a direct result of disharmony within the top ranks.The meeting was attended by provincial chairman Cde Dennis Ndlovu, Central Committee members Cdes Violet Zikhali and Ataliya Mangoye, Politburo member Cde Absolom Sikhosana and national executive members.Nkulumane and Pumula MPs, Cdes Killian Sibanda and Godfrey Malaba also attended the meeting.Masiyephambili District chairlady, Cde Marian Ndlovu, said the leaders should practice what they preach if the party was to grow stronger and be united. We are tired of being told to uphold the values of the party yet our own leaders can t do that. What is happening in the structures is being inherited from the provincial leaders. Some leaders are in the habit of personalising the party and running it like their own. The party will not go anywhere if we behave like this. Our leaders should justify why we elected them and lead by example. You can t come here and encourage us to be united yet you don t demonstrate it. We ll not accept people who come from the provincial structures to the districts just to divide people and create confusion. Instead of concentrating on campaigning for elections, people are busy trying to own party members, said Cde Ndlovu.Cde Builder Mahlangu, the Ward 23 chairman, pleaded with the provincial chairman Cde Ndlovu to sit down with the provincial executive and remind one another the principles of the party. There is a lot of infighting and this starts with the leaders. It s the party leaders who are inciting factionalism in the province. We don t want provincial issues to spill to districts because this creates hatred among the party members. The love that our leaders are preaching should start with them. That s the only way we can have a party that moves forward. Party structures are in shambles because people don t want to listen to each other. The women s league or youth league can now hold meetings without telling their chairpersons because someone in power is telling them not to do so, said Cde Mahlangu.Mafela B chairman Cde Tedius Pombi said it was important for party leaders to control people and tell them when they are wrong. The reason why we have people being voted into power today and kicked out in a short space of time is because there s no unity at provincial level. We re appealing to the provincial leadership to put its house in order. Let s learn to support one another and protect each other for the sake of the party. We re now chasing positions instead of the protecting the party, said Cde Pombi.Cde Ndlovu acknowledged the leadership was lacking and called on party members not to correct the situation through violence but by voting them out when election time comes. I was listening carefully and what has been said is true. It s unfortunate that some influential positions were taken by the wrong people and this was a mistake on our part. Let s not be violent. All we have to do is to vote them out when the time comes. There are people who don t value the party. They use money to sway our members and cause a lot of problems for us, said Cde Ndlovu, adding that party members should concentrate on winning the 2018 elections.Cde Malaba reminded party members that there was one centre of power in the party. We have one President, one party and one centre of power. Let s therefore work together and stay focused. We don t want to see our leaders being sold out. Right now opposition parties are uniting yet there are people within the Zanu-PF party making frantic efforts to divide people. This is not what our Father, the late Joshua Nkomo taught us. We want to win the elections but this can only happen if we unite and work hard, said Cde Malaba.Cde Sikhosana urged party members to shun tribalism and desist from fighting for positions. He said politics should not be about power but about development.@pamelashumba1