Sandra NdebeleShowbiz Reporter A PLATFORM for ladies in Bulawayo to meet and interact has been created at Club Connect after the club s management realised there was not much entertainment for women in the city. Dubbed the Isigqulo Divas Night Out, the event which is now in its third week will tonight feature musician, Sandra Ndebele.Club Connect manager Manu Mahaso said the outing was inspired by the Skyz Metro FM programme that is broadcast on Saturdays with the same name.On the interactive show, people contact the station to share their experiences at parties, weddings and other outings.Mahaso said DJ Beekay and Babongile Sikhonjwa from Skyz Metro FM will be in charge of tonight s show. The club s resident DJ Crazy Black will be joined by guest DJ Keitho to entertain patrons. We want people, especially women, to have a daily clubbing experience. One must not wait for the weekend to go out and have fun. We ve introduced these outings specifically for ladies as we want them to meet and interact often, said Mahaso.Isigqulo Divas Night Outs are held every Tuesday at the club with different guests being invited to interact and entertain patrons. Women usually want to be away from the hustle and bustle of the weekend outings and have fun on their own, hence the reason why we made Tuesday Diva s Night Out. Mahaso said ladies attending the outing will be expected to dress elegantly in heels as prizes will be given away to the best dressed women.Ndebele encouraged women to come in their numbers as they will benefit from the outing. There ll be competitions for ladies and I want to encourage them to come out and have clean fun together, no gossiping or pulling each other down. It s a girls night out to share experiences and business ideas as well as issues which affect us as women, said Ndebele.She said she will also use the event to perform her single, Ingoma. I ll promote my single and give away copies for free. However, Mahaso said there will be no live broadcast of the Isigulo Divas Night Out on Skyz Metro FM. Though the event was inspired by the radio station s programme, we sadly won t be having a live broadcast though we re looking into having the broadcasts soon. 