Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent AS people are negotiating business deals during the ZITF this week there are places around Bulawayo that they can eat, chill and party. Below we profile some of the spots dotted around the city. WHERE TO PARTYBulawayo Amphitheatre (situated at the Centenary Park) South Africa s KO and Zimbabwe s Winky D will shut down the trade fair with a show on Saturday. The duo will be joined by local rapper Cal Vin and DJ Liz with surprise artistes.Glow Health and Beauty (Ascot Shopping Centre) Lovers of modelling will have the chance to watch one of the country s top modelling agency cap its student during its graduation ceremony. Singer cum dancer Sandra Ndebele and fashionista Welshman Sibanda will be part of the entertainment.Club Connect (Fife Street and 3rd Avenue) Tonight for the female party goers with Trade Fair Divas Night Out. The outing will be hosted by The Queen alongside Skyz Metro FM s BKay and Babongile Sikhonjwa and resident DJs Keitho and Crazy Black.On Thursday it s ZITF Reggae Dancehall Madness with ZiFM s Judgement Yard s DJ Flevah and Etherton B. This will be a live broadcast with guest DJ Fujee on the decks.On Friday it s Miss Trade Fair 2017 at the joint with 12 models on the ramp for the accolade. DJs Prince Eskhosini, Kead Wikead and Crazy Black will be on the decks.BAC (12th Avenue and Park Road) It s a happy three hours all throughout the week as all beers are pegged at $1. On Saturday DJ Mzoe will headline the Exclusive ZITF Closing Bash. He will be backed by Vulcan, Tony E and Sweet Mobbie.Club Eden (Ascot Race Course) On Friday Live broadcast by ZiFM s Judgement Yard Etherton B and DJ Flevah. On Saturday it s the Trade Fair shutdown party with DJs Keezy AM, Tick Tock Noma that Girl.Ko Lindi (Luveve) The place nestled in Luveve whose location can be sought out from the who s who of the Bulawayo night life, is a good place to be to have a good time with friends and business partners.Private Lounge (Fife Street and 3rd Avenue) For those who want to be teased by strippers then Private Lounge is for you and tonight the dancers will be holding an All Red Party. Tomorrow they have a Bikini Wednesday that is set to be mind blowing. On Thursday the dancers will be in school uniforms during the School Freaks. The heat is turned up as the dancers host the Freaky Friday and Seductive Saturday alongside DJS Del Roy, Blammie and Galaz.The Lounge (between 10th and 11th avenue along Robert Mugabe Way) Tonight the joint kicks off the trade fair fever with a Ladies Night hosted by DJ Jaiza with Chris Rockx and Marcus Andro on the decks. Tomorrow is the Midweek party with DJs Kananjo and Chris Rockx. Gents Night with Kananjo and Jaiza will be on Thursday while on Friday the Friday Trade Fair shutdown pre-party will be hosted by DJs Marcus Andro and Jaiza. On Saturday it s the Trade Fair shutdown party with DJ Jaiza, Kananjo, Marcus Chris and a guest DJ. Sunday it s the Stokvel night with DJs Kananjo and Jaiza.WHERE TO EAT?26 on Park (26 Park Road Suburbs) For simply good food with a little more, a Cafe/Bistro offering family friendly space to relax and enjoy a coffee or meal. Open selected nights or via prior arrangement for group bookings. Special menus available on request.Mamsie s Caravan (situated along Plumtree road after Lobels) If one wants to drive by and eat delicious food, traditional meals under a tree then this is where one should have their lunch.Delicious Hot Meals (New Magwegwe terminus) Situated deep in the high density suburb of Magwegwe the place is a must-go as it offers a variety of hot meals for people during lunch at the terminus.Some travel from as far as the city centre to buy a hot meal.WHERE TO HAVE SUNDOWNERSLegends Sports Diner Set up for the mature and young at heart tomorrow Jazz Band Friends will entertain patrons. On Thursday it s Groove Night with DJ S.G. A Sleeves up Detox party will be on the cards on Friday with a draw for prizes being held as patrons will be asked to leave their business cards upon entry.Khumalo Hockey Stadium Bar THE upmarket joint that caters for the mature who want to have drinks and a good time in a homely out environment will tomorrow have Whiskey and Wine. Thirsty Thursday takes over whereas Friday is Zvishavane s commercial radio station Yah FM s night where it s a social event where people can meet and greet the presenters. The ever popular Karaoke Night will be a feature on Saturday.Cubanna (between 10th and 11th avenue along Robert Mugabe Way) For a mellow and relaxed atmosphere if you want to have a social evening to unwind and have a meal and drinks with friends, family and loved ones Cubanna is the place to be. Tomorrow is a Cocktail Night where the beverages are at half price. Thursday is Happy Hour between 7PM- 8PM. Friday and Saturday the joint is the place to be to kick start your night.Back Room Shisha Lounge (Bradfield Shopping Centre) Backroom Shisha lounge is the home of ambience, where all things come alive. With a wide range of whiskeys and Shisha flavours the joint provides a place to wind down.