Kiyapili Sibanda, Business Reporter THE private sector should be at the forefront of creating jobs and complement Government efforts in developing the economy, experts have said. Speaking at a business breakfast meeting organised by Global Shapers Community in Bulawayo last week, participants who were drawn from the local business community said a successful economy was a product of inclusive efforts in which the private sector plays a huge role.Mr Tapiwa Chizana, a partner at Deloitte challenged the private sector to be innovative and come up with ideas that can bring change and make the Zimbabwean economy attractive. They (private sector) must be encouraged to come up with ideas that are solid and efficient in shaping the economy rather than waiting for the Government to do things for them, he said.Economic commentator and Affirmative Action Group (AAG) leader Mr Reginald Shoko weighed in saying entrepreneurs in Zimbabwe need to up their game if transformation is to be achieved. Entrepreneurs must be at the forefront of providing jobs in the market and not Government. Most entrepreneurs in the country are entrepreneurs because of survival. They are not trained enough. Some are there because they were fired from work and they venture into business for survival. For them to be successful they must have the relevant skills that are critical to have an impact on the economy, said Mr Shoko.He said entrepreneurship in Africa was a challenge because of numerous bottlenecks such as skills and exposure as well as lack of access to capital.Ms Patience Phiri, a banker by profession, said equipping young entrepreneurs with relevant skills and links was crucial in turning around the economy. I train youth on the employability to impart them with skills that are relevant whether in the work place or the economy. I give them relevant skills which are very crucial in order to turn them from being employees to employers as this makes them survive in this economic environment, she said.Mr Butler Tambo from the Centre of Public Engagement said private sector failure to create jobs in the market was linked to the shortcomings of tertiary learning institutions.He said there was a mismatch between what universities were producing and what the industry demands. We need graduates to match the policies like Zim-Asset so that they can have the know-how to turn around the economy, Mr Tambo said.He said a skills audit should be done to see what the industry needs so that universities can use that information to equip students before going to the market.Labour consultant Mr Davies Sibanda also challenged universities to work closely with industry in coming up with production models and ideas that will impact positively on the economy.The meeting was attended by the local business community and ran under the theme, Employability, Entrepreneurship and the Economy .