Nation DubeLovemore Zigara in Gweru HWANGE coach Nation Dube says his mission is to ensure that Chipangano avoid relegation this season. Most pundits believe the coal miners could be headed for the chop this season following a player exodus during the off-season.Hwange lost 13 players, among them top marksman Gift Mbweti, who was lured by the riches of FC Platinum in Zvishavane while Farai Vimisai and David Boriwondo are now playing Division One football at Zifa Central Soccer League side Nichrut.The departure of experienced players has opened the doors for youngsters and Dube believes they can withstand the pressures of the Premiership. This is a relatively new team after we lost most of our first team players and it is work in progress. I am happy that the boys are growing in confidence with each outing, said Dube. Our main objective is to avoid relegation because this is a new team and as such most of the players are still learning the ropes. I am confident that despite having youngsters, we can achieve our mission. Having been clobbered 0 3 by high riding Ngezi Platinum Stars last week, the former Warriors assistant coach has every reason to be confident after his charges went on to beat Chapungu 2-1 on Saturday.It was a match where veteran Gilbert Zulu pulled the strings in attack and was involved in the two goals. Age is just but a number as you can see his performance. It shows that he is a veteran, who has seen it all. I am building this young team around him together with other veterans like Obert Moyo and Gerald Ndlovu, Dube said.His Chapungu counterpart Tendai Chikuni lamented his strikers lack of confidence.Chikuni might have won the hearts of Chapungu fans for his passing game, but the airmen only have a point to show for it in their last three games.Their strikers have fired blanks in all the games, with midfielder Raymond Sibanda scoring their solitary goal.Chapungu have a number of strikers, among them ageless skipper Phillip Marufu, Tinei Chitora, Patrick Khumbula, Allen Tavarwisa, Xolani Ncube and Brighton Mugoni, but none has come to the party leaving them at the tail end of the league table. If you look at what happened today, we need to bring back the confidence because the boys are getting into goal scoring positions in the box, but are failing to convert. This is very worrying and as a coach I have to restrategise. We have other guys who have not been playing and maybe it s time to also throw them into the fray, said Chikuni.In the match against Hwange, the airmen clearly lacked the cutting edge, with Marufu the main culprit after missing two sitters, while the woodwork also denied them on three occasions.One of Chapungu s major undoing has also been the lack of numbers in the opposition s box when attacking from the wings, which has made it easy for opponents to repel any danger. @lavuzigara1&nbsp;