Snr Asst Comm Charity CharambaAuxilia Katongomara and Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporters POLICE have appealed to motorists to observe road rules and regulations during the Easter and Independence holidays to curb accidents. National chief police spokesperson Senior Assistant Commissioner Charity Charamba said traffic cops would be deployed to deal with law breakers. She said motorists should co-operate with police when stopped at roadblocks to avoid inconveniences. As we approach Easter and Independence holidays, the ZRP would like to appeal to all motorists to value human lives on the roads and drive safely. Police will be deployed in all the country s major highways so as to curb speeding, overloading and other accident contributing factors. Police will check for traffic violations, stolen vehicles, drug traffickers and cattle rustlers, said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. Drivers should observe road rules and regulations and ensure that their motor vehicles are road worthy. Members of the public are urged to carry identity particulars when travelling. She said property owners should leave their premises under guard if they intend to travel.Snr Asst Comm Charamba said parents and guardians must leave their children, particularly the girl child in the custody of mature and responsible people, if they are not travelling with them. We are appealing to members of the public to report drivers who speed and flout road rules on Police General Headquarters number (04) 70361 or at their nearest police station so as to safeguard lives. Together we can make our lives safe, said Snr Asst Comm Charamba. Let us strive to prevent crime during the holidays and also to drive to arrive alive on the road. Police will ensure that criminals are accounted for while at the same time there is order and sanity on the roads. Meanwhile, the National Blood Service Zimbabwe (NBSZ) Matabeleland regional office has assured the public that it has mobilised adequate blood stocks for emergencies during the Easter and Independence holidays.NBSZ Matabeleland region public relations officer Mr Sifundo Ngwenya said plans were underway to collect more blood although existing stocks could sustain the blood bank throughout the Easter and Independence holidays in case of serious accidents. As the Matabeleland region we are ready for the Easter holidays. We have programmes in place to harness more blood so that stocks are not depleted after holidays. As the blood bank we are prepared to serve the nation during the holidays because holidays usually have the highest number of accident casualties who need blood transfusion, said Mr Ngwenya.He said the NBSZ had also lined up several blood collection campaigns. We seek to bring significant stability in safe blood stocks during the Easter holiday thereby providing a long-term solution to these seasonal shortages, said Mr Ngwenya.The Easter and Independence Day holidays begin on Friday to Tuesday next week.Last month Bulawayo youths from the Seventh Day Adventist church contributed more than 80 percent of the blood that was donated throughout the country.According to statistics availed by NBSZ, the blood bank got 532 pints during the SDA youths blood campaigns last month, a record for faith based organisations.Mr Ngwenya urged other religious groups and ordinary people to donate blood as well. Every second there s someone who s in need of blood. We therefore need to work hard to make sure we re not in short supply. All those who are aged between 16 and 65 and are strong and healthy are free to come to our stations and donate blood, he said.@andile_tshuma@AuxiliaK