THERE S nothing as liberating as finding the perfect bra size. Yes, nothing feels better than a bra that sits just perfectly. I was talking to a friend about this the other day and they were surprised bra sizes can even be an issue. They can. And I know this is an everyday struggle for a significant number of women. They just don t know where to begin and what to look for when picking a bra.But this is such an important process because nothing makes clothes look stranger than an ill-fitting bra. It s just unsightly especially if your boobs are big.Besides, boob spillage over the top of the cups, gaping in the cups or straps digging into your shoulders can cause all manner of discomfort.A bra that fits well can do more than just help you look good it can also make you feel healthier. A bra that s too big, too small or just doesn t fit right can cause back pain, irritate your skin and generally make you feel uncomfortable.And it s really not that difficult finding a bra that will make you look and feel sexy.Start by determining your band size by wrapping a soft tape measure around your ribs, right below your breasts, and rounding up the number. Measure your bust size by wrapping the tape measure around your back and breasts at their fullest point. Subtract the band size from the bust size; the difference between the two determines your cup size.It s not complicated. A one inch difference equals an A cup, a two inch difference equals a B cup, three inches equal a C cup, four inches equal a D cup and a five inch difference equals a DD cup.Now, you simply combine the cup size with your band measurement, and you have your final bra size. So, a 34C means you have a 34 inch band and a C cup.Remember that the cup size is not the same for each band size. A 34B cup will be smaller than a 36B cup. What makes bra shopping or any underwear shopping difficult for anyone is that you re not allowed to try on what you pick, for hygienic purposes.The most many stores can do for you is let you try on the bra on top of your clothes so ensure you wear a t-shirt when you go bra shopping. Try on different bras, and for each one, check that your breasts are firmly in place in the cups, that the cups lie smoothly, and that the straps are not digging into your shoulders.Choose a bra based on what you ll be wearing it for; for instance, a sports bra for exercise, a t-shirt bra for casual wear.The bra should be snug but not dig into your sides. Your nipples should be about halfway between your elbow and shoulder. If they re lower, tighten the straps to lift. Make sure the bra band is snug and low in the back. The band can be parallel to the floor but should angle no higher. If the band is too high, the bra can t provide proper support. Try a smaller band size or tightening the straps.Check that the underwire doesn t dig into your chest or pinch your skin. The wires shouldn t bend outward in the centre. Try a larger size or consider a bra without an underwire if this happens.Make sure the band isn t too tight. Run a finger under the front of your band. If you can t slide your finger under the band, your bra may be hooked too tight or you need a larger band size.If your bra becomes uncomfortable when you sit, try a larger band or a bra with an arched centre panel. Your ribs expand when you re in a seated position so you want your bra to be comfortable whether you re on your feet or in a chair.If you change band sizes when trying on bras, you ll also have to change cup sizes such that if you need a larger band size, go down a cup size. So instead of 34B, you ll want 36A.And if you need a smaller band size, go up a cup size. Instead of 34B, go for 32C. It is more important to have an accurate band measurement than cup measurement. Going up or down a band size is a more significant change than going up or down a cup size. Get a comfortable band first and then fine tune the cup size.Remember, your bra size is not permanent and will change along with your body. Just because you re a 34C now doesn t mean you ll always have those same measurements. Make an effort to get yourself a bra that fits perfectly. Trust me, you ll be much happier.Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa, visit my blog, www.stayera247.blogspot.com or like my Facebook page Pattern &amp; Style.