Mrs Khonzani NcubeChronicle Reporters PREPARATIONS for this year s Independence Day celebrations are underway, with some companies and well-wishers pledging donations for the celebrations on April 18. In an interview yesterday, Bulawayo Provincial Administrator Mrs Khonzani Ncube said Independence preparations were at an advanced stage in the province.She said there would be a fundraising dinner on April 17 to assist charitable organisations in the city. As per custom we will have our ball on April 17 where we will raise some funds to donate to charity and vulnerable groups in the city. We therefore invite the Bulawayo community to buy tickets through our accountant, said Mrs Ncube. A lot is lined up for the main event at White City Stadium where we will have our celebrations. A lot of food and entertainment is ready for members of the public. In Matabeleland North Province, Provincial Administrator Ms Latiso Dlamini said various companies and state entities had shown interest in donating towards the event.Local authorities from the province and the National Social Security Authority (NSSA) have both donated over $2 000 while Ingwebu Breweries pledged 1000 litres of opaque beer, said the PA. Everything is well on course. Makomo Resources have pledged catering for the VVIP while Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority and GMB have pledged meat and grain respectively, she said.The PA said the holding of the Independence Ball would depend on availability of funds.She said an update meeting would be held on Wednesday next week in Lupane.In the Midlands province, the Provincial Administrator Mr Abiot Maronge said preparations from the provincial to district events had started in earnest across the province for the historic day. Preparations are advanced now as we have got substantial financial contributions from institutions like the Midlands State University (MSU), Gweru City Council, and Zimbabwe Open University (ZOU) among other organisations. There are also pledges from several companies and individuals and we are confident that they will honour up their pledges before the big day, he said.Mr Maronge said the main provincial event would be at Mkoba Stadium in Gweru while respective districts would hold their own events.