Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter TSHOLOTSHO flood victims will be relocated to their new stands by Independence Day next week, the Government has said. The construction of toilets at the new sites, which has been holding the relocation, is expected to be complete before April 18.The villagers were displaced from their homes by floods which hit the southern parts of the country more than two months ago.National chairperson of the Civil Protection Unit (CPU), who is also the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Saviour Kasukuwere visited the Tshino area on Wednesday together with Tsholotsho North MP Professor Jonathan Moyo, who is also the Minister of Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development and the Minister of Youth Development, Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment Patrick Zhuwao.Minister Kasukuwere said the Government was aware of the plight of the flood victims in Tsholotsho and other areas around the country. Our plan is to move the flood victims from the transit camp to their new stands in the coming week. A toilet will be constructed at each stand and the families will move with their tents so that they assist in the construction of their homes. We re treating this situation with all the urgency it deserves. We know the plight of the flood victims, especially those at the transit camp at Sipepa Hospital. It s not healthy for our people to stay at a transit camp. Their social lives have been seriously affected, said Minister Kasukuwere.He commended the youth ministry for mobilising youths to assist in the construction of toilets adding that all the building material required will be made available. We re grateful for the initiative taken by the ministry of youth. The assistance from the youths will go a long way not only in accelerating progress but in training them. We re also happy with the assistance that we re receiving to restore the lives of people and our infrastructure that was destroyed by the floods. We received $1 million from China, mackerel fish worth $1,2 million from Namibia, $20 000 from CBZ Bank to reconstruct one of the destroyed schools, tents, clothing, water purifiers and food from non-governmental organisations and well wishers, he said.Minister Kasukuwere said the Ministry of Health and Child Care and the Ministry of Primary and Secondary education needed assistance in building a clinic and a school in the area as well as extending the existing schools to cater for all the pupils.Prof Moyo commended the national CPU for its involvement in the relocation process, saying it has made a difference in clearing stands and accelerating progress. The living conditions at the transit camp have disrupted the dynamics of family life. We have 10 families accommodated in one tent and this has caused serious problems. We re therefore addressing a problem that is developing regarding the need for the cohesion of families. It s now all systems go. The movement of the families to the new stands will make them participate in the construction of their homes, said Prof Moyo.Chief Mathuphula commended the ministers for their enthusiasm and called for well wishers to continue supporting the flood victims.A total of 300 stands were pegged at Tshino and Sawudweni areas in Ward Six of Tsholotsho North constituency to accommodate 859 flood victims sheltered at a transit camp at Sipepa Hospital in Tsholotsho.In the past week, the stands were being cleared with assistance from youths mobilised by the National Youth Service. @pamelashumba1