Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter A TOTAL of 138 cases of human wildlife conflicts were recorded countrywide for the first quarter amid reports that 13 people were killed while eight were injured by wild animals. According to the Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Authority (Zimparks), the 13 people were killed by crocodiles and elephants.In an interview, acting Zimparks spokesperson Mr Simukai Nyasha said there was a need for members of the public to co-exist with wildlife and be empowered on how to react in case of emergencies. The first three months of 2017 saw 138 cases of human- wildlife conflict being reported. It is disheartening to note that human lives continue to be lost due to such conflicts which can be avoided, said Mr Nyasha. At least 13 people were killed by crocodiles and elephants during that period while eight people were injured. He said the most affected areas were Hwange and Tsholotsho in Matabeleland North province, Mbire and Chiredzi in Masvingo, Gokwe district in the Midlands province and Kariba and Nyaminyami in Mashonaland West. In terms of livestock, lions, hyenas and crocodiles killed a total of 54 cattle, four donkeys and 48 goats in the affected areas. Some of the conflicts have also led to crop destruction by elephants and destruction of water sources, he said.Mr Nyasha urged people to take advantage of the ongoing Trade Fair to gather knowledge on how best to handle wildlife. Most of these wild animals are harmless unless provoked hence members of the public must always call police or our office in cases of emergencies. They should also avoid bathing in deep water sources to keep safe from crocodiles, he said.A man from Bulawayo died after he was trampled by an elephant while at work in Victoria Falls last month.The late Emmanuel Mhuka was walking along the main road from the border post with a workmate Mr Steven Chahomone.When they were near their work station, they encountered a herd of elephants. The two reportedly avoided the herd which had crossed to one side of the road but one bull charged at them.&nbsp;