BlaqsBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent AWARD winning video producer Vusumuzi Blaqs Hlatshwayo continues to carve out a name for himself with the continuous release of blockbuster videos. His most recent release is Military Touch Movement artistes ExQ and Nutty O s Let s Talk About It which was uploaded on YouTube last week and is already being played on acclaimed international music channel Trace Africa. As of yesterday, the high quality video shot at an up-market club Pablo s VIP in Harare had close to 30 000 views on YouTube.Blaqs who had taken a self-imposed hiatus from producing videos bounced back with the release of that video. It is the second he has produced for ExQ after the highly successful Bhachura featuring Ammara, which is also being heavily rotated on Trace.The visuals are simple so is the story line, which tells a tale of two suitors trying to woo a lady at the nightspot. She has to choose between Nutty O a dancehall artiste and ExQ a rapper. Nutty O uses his dancehall vibe to try and convince the woman to be with him while ExQ uses his hip hop swagger to do the same. The woman is torn apart and cannot choose between the two. At the end of the video, she loses out as the two artistes both ditch her.One thing that has become synonymous with Blaqs music videos is their simplicity. Most of his works have often left people s tongues wagging especially the visuals on Watchu Want by Ammara and Chengeto Brown where a snake was used and Killer T s Bvunza Tinzwe where he was filmed in a casket.Blaqs is also the producer behind Thabbz and Cal Vin s Hey Wena which was Thabbz breakthrough track. The video hogged the Zambezi Magic Zim Top 10 music video chart for several weeks showing how much of a great production it was.Inspired by American rapper Kanye West s creative mind and intellect, Blaqs always pushes boundaries.The producer urged music lovers to watch out for upcoming videos from rapper Tehn Diamond, sensation Tammy, Fungisai Mashavave and Killer T. He is also hoping to produce a music video for Soul Jah Love for his recent runaway hit Pamamonya Ipapo.