Students pose for a picture after the PPC Inaugural Invitational Kids Golf TournamentAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter PPC general manager for sales Roger Steyn has hailed pro golfer Brian Gondo for running a programme introducing golf to students from Government schools in Bulawayo for the past two years. With support from PPC, Gondo (32) has managed to introduce 25 boys and girls from Mzilikazi, Milton and Eveline High schools to their very first golf tournament.Speaking after a PPC inaugural Invitational Kids Golf Tournament recently held at Bulawayo Golf Club, Steyn said his dream was to one day see one of the recipients in the league of international players such as Tiger Woods. It started when I was playing golf one day with former PPC managing director Njombo Lekula and Gondo joined us. Njombo was so impressed with Gondo s game and at the same time Brian was looking for sponsorship to help cover his expenses. So we came up with a plan for PPC to sponsor him. Part of the deal was that we would buy extra golf clubs and he (Gondo) would work with underprivileged children and instruct them in golf, said Steyn. I believe this programme has realised more than one dream of a young pro golfer from the high density suburbs to give back to the community in which he was raised, but also the corporation s link back to grassroots sports. It s so nice to see everyone in red for this tournament, which is a significant part of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme and a dream come true for Brian and PPC. Be proud of yourselves and continue to fly our flag high, he said.Gondo said working with the students had been highly significant to him for many reasons, not least of all because he came from similar circumstances. I grew up with no idea what golf meant, just like these kids, and with not enough money to buy a golf ball. And now we re seeing these same kids, who started with a handicap of 24, playing with a handicap of 6 or 8, in just a couple of years. The game of golf is about self-discipline, structure and perseverance, all good life lessons for students to learn. There s also the hope that it will keep them occupied in a positive way and safe from the challenges of crime and drugs that affect so many young people, especially in less privileged societies, said Gondo. @khumzallen.