Showbiz Reporter South Africa s Mafikizolo arrived in Harare yesterday ahead of their concert with Jah Prayzah tomorrow. The multi-award winning duo which recently collaborated with the Mudhara Vachauya hit-maker for track Sendekera will perform that track as well as their recent singles like Kucheza which have been topping the charts.They will be joined on the HICC stage by Alexio Kawara and Andy Muridzo at a show dubbed Sendekera, Come Let s Dance organised by award-winning promoters, 2 Kings Entertainment.This performance will be unique as the SA duo will be celebrating their 20-year anniversary as a group in the music industry. We ve come a long way and as we celebrate, we remember Tebogo Madingoane, our late member for the role he played in Mafikizolo. There re challenges we faced, but we also had some accomplishments and as part of our celebrations, we want to do some free shows in the townships in South Africa, said Mafikizolo.Mafikizolo is in the process of mastering their new album set for release soon. The first single Kucheza (dance in Swahili) was produced by DJ Maphorisa.Known for their energetic live performances, the duo made up of Theo Kgosinkwe and Nhlanhla Nciza has previously performed in Harare at the HICC and Belgravia Sports Club. At all shows, they have proven why they were the most sought-after afro-pop band in Africa as they have wowed their Zimbabwean fans.Speaking on their forthcoming album Kgosinkwe said: The sound is completely different from anything we ve ever done as Mafikizolo. We love exploring with new sounds, especially as we travel the continent, we get exposed to new sounds but we try not to lose our own South African essence in the process. Kucheza is a mix of ragga, hip-hop and Afro-pop sung in English, Xhosa and Swahili. We believe the album will be big as we celebrate 20 years in the industry as Mafikizolo and will feature both South African and other African artists. The event tonight will also be special for Jah Prayzah who will be celebrating his accomplishments especially considering that he was last week announced as a nominee for the South African Music Awards in the Best African Act category. Last year, Jah Prayzah announced that he was on a quest to penetrate the African music industry and a few months down, his name is already notable internationally.Last year again, he won an MTV Africa Music Award for Listeners Choice after his collaboration with Tanzania s Diamond Platnumz Watora Mari was a success as it was played on various TV channels across the globe.Other than that, the artiste recently set up a record label Military Touch Movement which seems to be doing well judging from the artistes he has signed and music his label has produced thus far.&nbsp;