Mrs Khonzani NcubeChronicle Reporters PROVINCES are making final touches to preparations for Independence Day celebrations to be held this coming Tuesday. Bulawayo provincial administrator Mrs Khonzani Ncube said they have started receiving donations for the celebrations. All is set and we are just waiting for the day. We have started receiving donations and we wish to extend our gratitude to the Bulawayo community which continues to support us, said Mrs Ncube.She said as usual the Independence Ball dinner will be on April 17 and most of the funds raised at the dinner will be donated to charity.In Matabeleland North Province, the organising committee chaired by Matabeleland North provincial administrator Latiso Dlamini met in Lupane yesterday to make final preparations ahead of the celebrations at Somhlolo Stadium.Ms Dlamini said the major challenge was that the committee was failing to access cash donated by organisations that included local authorities towards the celebrations.She said there will be no Independence Ball because of funding challenges but instead the province will have a musical gala in Lupane. We are in a meeting making final touches but everything is on course. Those who pledged money have deposited it but we have a challenge withdrawing it hence we will be engaging shops so that they accept tranfers, she said.In Matabeleland South, preparations for the celebrations set for Gwanda have gathered momentum despite the fact that the town has spent a week without water. Security forces have been busy with their rehearsals at Phelandaba Stadium.Independence banners have already been put up at Government buildings and roads leading to the venue of the celebrations.The provincial administrator, Ms Sthandiwe Ncube said: We are busy following up on pledges made by stakeholders to feed the people. Some have brought them but others are still to do so. We are appealing to people to come in their numbers to celebrate our hard won independence. She said on April 17 they will be a Independence Ball at Gwanda District Club where people will dance the night away.Midlands province independence celebrations organizing committee had by yesterday received 15 head of cattle to be slaughtered for the celebrations.The Minister of State for Provincial Affairs, Cde Jason Machaya said indications were that the target of $10 000 for the celebrations will be realised. This is a national event and we have invited other political parties to join us as we celebrate 37 years of independence, he said.Cde Machaya said this year there was no Independence Ball but instead there will be a Thank you dinner after the event.Masvingo provincial celebrations received a boost following the donation of game meat by the Zimbabwe National Parks and Wildlife Management (Zimparks).Masvingo Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Cde Shuvai Mahofa said preparations for the important day were at an advanced stage with most of the targeted resources having been mobilised. We have managed to mobilise adequate resources to make our independence celebrations a resounding success. The Ministry of Environment, Water and Climate, through Zimparks has given us two buffalos and an elephant to slaughter, said Cde Mahofa.