Taurai MangwiroOscar Rusenga in Triangle Triangle 2- 2 Dynamos YOUTHFUL Dynamos learnt yet another tough lesson about the demands of the Premiership when they blew what seemed a comfortable lead to share the spoils with hosts Triangle in a lively encounter at Gibbo yesterday.After suffering a 1-0 loss at home in their opening game of 2017, Dynamos seemed to have got it right when racing into a 2-0 lead but somehow, the lack of experience at this level of the game came into play as the hosts rallied back to force a share of the points.Dynamos made their business intentions known after their 25-year old newboy Quality Kangadzi, plucked from Northern Region Division One outfit Trojan Stars in Bindura scored his debut Premiership goal in spectacular fashion after just four minutes of action.Kangadzi was fed by Emmanuel Mandiranga who dribbled past former Dynamos defender Guthrie Zhokinyu on the left flank before setting up the forward to finish.He could have doubled his tally three minutes later but Kangadzi headed wide after a pinpoint cross off a setpiece by captain Ocean Mushure. Dynamos for a moment threatened to run away with the match through sporadic raids that kept the travelling blue army on the edges of their seats.The home side under pressure to reduce the arrears made a tactical substitution in the 34th minute replacing Kudzai Chigwida with Benson Maglas.Dynamos goalkeeper Tonderai Mateyaunga made a brilliant save in the 35th minute denying veteran striker Tarisai Rukanda what seemed like an equaliser.Kangadzi who was making his second appearance for the visitors troubled the home side rear-guard with some deft touches and on the stroke of half time he watched in disbelief when his goal was correctly ruled for offside by Checheche-based assistant referee Evans Bere.Just like in the first half Triangle had a slow start and the visitors midfielder Mandiranga who provided the assist in the first goal finally turned on the magic after powering home a brilliant goal off a pass from Takunda Sadiki.Triangle refused to be cowed into submission and their seasoned captain Nhamo Lameck reduced the arrears in the 64th minute, setting up an intriguing end to the match.Eight minutes later there was drama after Dynamos medic Knowledge Zambi invaded the pitch to attend to player Gift Saunyama while the match was in progress.Triangle coach Taurai Mangwiro was disappointed with Dynamos technical bench for the incident and another pre-match incident when somebody in Dynamos blue regalia sprinkled water on the goalposts which Triangle were guarding in the first half. I am disappointed with the result, we could have collected maximum points because we came back stronger in the second half despite conceding an early goal. I am just disappointed with Lloyd Mutasa. He has been around for a long time and I don t expect him to be leading his boys or to teach them wrong things . . . that s not a good example for Zimbabwean football. Referee Brighton Chimene then gave Triangle a lifeline when he awarded the home side a penalty in the 77th minute following a handball by a Dynamos player.Spot-kick specialist and goalkeeper Ronald Mudimu did not disappoint as he sent his opposite number Mateyaunga to the wrong side.Mutasa was not amused with the draw and felt it was two points lost rather than a point gained after surrendering a two-goal cushion. We should have buried the game early in the first half when we dominated them and lapses of concentration from my boys cost us all three points, Mutasa said.TeamsTriangle: R. Mudimu, R. Kawondera, N. Meson, D. Dzvinyai, K. Chigwida (B. Maglasi 34th min), G. Zhokinyi, T. Sibelo (H. Mavhundi 45th min), S. Alimenda, R. Madamombe, T. Rukanda (C. Denias 75th min), N. LameckDynamos: T. Mateyaunga, O. Mwerahari, O. Mushure, E. Muroiwa, L. Zvasiya, T. Chipunza, G. Saunyama, T. Sadiki, E. Mandiranga, Q. Kangadzi, D. Mukamba (C. Kapupurika 72nd min).