Andile Tshuma, Court Reporter BULAWAYO Ward 23 Councillor Thobani Ncube, who was on Wednesday convicted of defrauding a resident of $12 000 in a housing scam, has been sentenced to 36 months in prison. Western Commonage magistrate Ms Nyaradzo Ringisayi convicted Ncube despite his plea of not guilty. Such behaviour is not expected from a leader that communities should look up to. Leaders should be exemplary, Magistrate Ringisai said: Accused person is therefore sentenced to 36 months in prison. Six months will be suspended on condition of good behaviour for five years . Twelve months of the sentenced will be suspended on condition that accused person restitutes the complainant. The remaining 18 months will be suspended on condition that the accused person will perform 630 hours of community service .Ncube conned Ms Vainah Moyo (54) of Barham Green suburb by selling her a stand which he also sold to one Mvangeli Xaba.He had argued that he reached a verbal agreement with Ms Moyo and a few months later they failed to understand each other.State evidence proved that although Ncube alleged to have verbally called off the deal with Ms Moyo in August last year, he still received payments until November.Prosecuting, Mr Tony Kamudyariwa said sometime in July last year, Ms Moyo met Ncube via a middleman, who is also a councillor, Rodney Jele (Ward 22). On an unknown date but in the period extending from July 25 to October 1 last year, the complainant met the accused person with the intention of buying a residential stand. The complainant paid $12 000 in instalments towards the purchase of the stand. In November 2016, the complainant wanted to write up an agreement of sale only to discover that the same stand had been sold to Mvangeli Xaba, said Mr Kamudyariwa.Ms Moyo testified that she paid $12 000 towards the purchase of stand number 364 Matsheumhlope suburb. I ran around looking for a stand on behalf of someone else. I met one Rodney Jele and he told me that Thobani Ncube was selling a residential stand. We met him and he confirmed that he was selling the stand for $23 000. After a down payment of $12 000, I phoned Ncube and told him to write up an agreement of sale but he gave me an unsatisfactory explanation. He became evasive and finally he was nowhere to be seen. That is when I discovered that I had been duped, said Ms Moyo.Clr Jele confirmed that he was the middleman in the sale of the stand and said Ncube had claimed Ms Moyo was failing to pay for the stand. Ncube came back to me saying Moyo was failing to pay for the stand so he wanted another buyer. I ran around and met Mvangeli Xaba. The two reached an agreement and Ncube asked me to witness it, said Clr Jele.@andile_tshuma&nbsp;