Mashudu Netsianda, Senior Court Reporter A WOMAN from Bulawayo is suing her boyfriend for $25 000 for allegedly assaulting her resulting in her losing two teeth following a domestic dispute. Ms Mary Arifaneti who suffered bruises, a swollen neck and back and lost two front teeth, is demanding $25 657 from her boyfriend Godfrey Maweni for medical expenses incurred, disfigurement, pain and suffering.Ms Arifaneti through her lawyers, Legal Aid Directorate, has filed summons at the Bulawayo High Court citing Maweni as the defendant.In court papers, Ms Arifaneti said she suffered bodily injuries and has lost her earnings from her cross-border trade as a result of the assault. On February 21, 2016 at around 9PM, my boyfriend paid me a visit at my home. An altercation arose after the defendant failed to answer a phone call from a female caller. I demanded to know who was calling during which a scuffle ensued, she said.Ms Arifaneti said her boyfriend turned violent and started to indiscriminately assault her all over the body. During the assault, the defendant held me by the neck and banged my face against the tarmac resulting in me sustaining bruises all over the body, a swollen neck and back. I also suffered irreparable damage to two front teeth, which have to be replaced with artificial ones, she said.Ms Arifaneti said she could not afford to buy artificial teeth.She also said as a result of the attack she had stopped crossing borders to buy wares for resale locally.Ms Arifaneti said her business used to rake in an average of $450 monthly. The defendant has ignored my plea for assistance in medical bills even though I withdrew criminal charges against him after he had begged me. He only contributed $40 to have my teeth filled and that is not a permanent solution, she said.Ms Arifaneti said despite demand, the defendant had failed, refused or neglected to compensate her for the injuries and damages suffered.She is seeking an order compelling the defendant to pay $25 657 with prescribed interest. She also wants the defendant to pay the legal costs.Maweni through his lawyers, Sansole and Senda Legal Practitioners, in his application for further particulars, queried why his girlfriend wants artificial teeth. Does the plaintiff have a specialist opinion and does the cause of her injuries a result of the assault? he queried. @mashnets.