MP Joseph Tshuma admires products that were made by backyard industries in his constituency. (Picture by Andile Tshuma)Andile Tshuma, Business Reporter MPOPOMA-Pelandaba MP Mr Joseph Tshuma has commended small to medium enterprises (SMEs) in Bulawayo for their resilience despite the difficult economic conditions. Speaking after conducting a backyard business showcase in Mabutweni suburb on Friday, Mr Tshuma said SMEs in the city should be supported as they have become an answer to unemployment and crime following the demise of bigger corporates. People are complaining about unemployment, but here you are, self employed and earning a living from it. It is high time people moved from the ideology of working for another person, he said.The entrepreneurs, who included people living with disabilities, were showcasing various products that they sell in order to earn a living. The products included bricks, vases and bowls made using waste plastic. Others make three-legged pots using recycled metal. The MP also toured carpentry and welding projects, which showcased beds and lounge sets, bells and scotch carts.The biggest exhibitor, according to the legislator, was a women s mushroom growing project that has managed to expand its market and is now supplying a major supermarket. I am very impressed with the work that all of you are doing. Next time we will meet to try and assist each other on how we can market the good crafts that are done here. I am pleased with the mushroom project. It is a very big deal by someone who has started small in their backyard and is now able to supply supermarkets, he said. I urge every member of this community who is still sitting at home and is wondering what to do to earn a living to take a leaf from these men and women who are doing such a great job to change the lives of their families. The MP encouraged small business people to form cooperatives to increase their capacity and harness resources to grow their business. There is power in unity and this cannot be overemphasised. I do not advise people to work as individuals, because we do greater things in our numbers.One person may not be able to work on a project big enough to attract a huge market, but these ladies have come together and today we are celebrating their success, he said.@andile_tshuma