Brian VitoriAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter BULAWAYO Metropolitan Cricket outfit Tuskers are facing an injury crisis ahead of their Logan Cup clash against Mountaineers at Queens Sports Club today, with three players being ruled out of the encounter. Seamer Brian Vitori and batsmen Sean Williams and Craig Evans have been ruled out as they are still nursing injuries.Tuskers coach Wayne James said despite the absence of key players, his charges are ready for the challenge. Unfortunately, we are going into tomorrow s (today) match still missing two of our main batters in the form of Sean Williams and Craig Evans, both of whom are injured at the moment. Christopher Mpofu will not be available this weekend because he has a function. Brian Vitori is still injured so we have big injury concerns, but we have a strong squad. Hopefully those who have been called to perform will be able to take the opportunity and do well, said James.Tuskers are yet to win in the Logan Cup competition and remain rooted at the bottom of their group with six points off five games. They have lost two, drawn two and one abandoned match.Their opponents (Mountaineers) are second with 14 points from five games comprising one win, two draws and two abandoned matches.James said his team is keen to make amends and improve on their performance. We haven t been happy with our previous results, but we have spoken at length about what went wrong. We are upbeat and looking forward to the challenge. We are under no illusion that Mountaineers are a strong side and at the end of the day if we play near our full potential, we are also a good side.Playing sport at the top level is all about challenges so the challenge has been thrown out there and the boys are fit. We had good preparations after the first league cricket last week and I think everybody is in good shape, James said. There is only one way for us right now and we can t go any lower so we have to move up. We have been good title contenders in previous years and the guys are keen to make amends and improve their performances because this is what it s all about, he said.Meanwhile, Midlands Rhinos will lock horns with Eagles in Kwekwe today.Logan Cup table:P W L TIED D ABAN Pts Eagles 5 1 0 0 2 2 14 Mountaineers 5 1 0 0 2 2 14 Rhinos 5 1 1 0 2 1 13 Tuskers 5 0 2 0 2 1 6@khumzallen