Business Reporter THE Government has engaged technocrats to set up a diaspora website to facilitate engagement with Zimbabweans resident outside the country and ensure their participation in national development. The move buttresses implementation of the Diaspora Policy, which provides institutional framework, measures and strategies that ensure effective participation of Zimbabweans in the diaspora in economic programmes and wider development initiatives. As part of operationalising the Diaspora Policy, the Ministry of Macro Economic Planning and Investment Promotion, with support from the International Organisation for Migration, is developing a national diaspora website. The purpose of the website is to promote diaspora engagement and participation of the Zimbabwe diaspora in national development. Among others, the website will showcase the opportunities in different sectors of the economy, the ministry said in a notice.In view of the above, the Ministry of Macro Economic Planning and Investment Promotion said its desire was to populate the website with relevant information on the opportunities in the country. The ministry has extended the invite to both public and private sectors to also provide information on opportunities that the diaspora community may exploit. Money transfer agencies, operators in the tourism sector and financial services sector are particularly encouraged to advertise on this website. The adverts will be posted on the website at no cost. The ministry also cordially invites Zimbabwean diaspora associations, which are willing to participate in national development to send through their profiles so that they may also be showcased on the website, reads the notice.The profile should include, but is not limited to the following: name of the association, the mission statement, objectives, initiatives that they are engaged in as well as their contact details. This ministry takes this opportunity to urge relevant stakeholders to take advantage of this rare opportunity to advertise on the website, said the ministry.The Government recognises the immense contribution of the Zimbabwean diaspora towards national development. Of late the sector is one of the foreign exchange earners contributing nearly $1 billion annually.The National Diaspora Policy seeks to provide a comprehensive framework for harnessing the immense contribution of Zimbabweans in the Diaspora as well as the protection of citizens outside the country.Some of the objectives of the policy include developing mechanisms for dialogue and partnership with Zimbabweans abroad, establishing the necessary institutional mechanism for co-ordination and administration of issues affecting Zimbabweans abroad.