Luke MasomereTHE self-proclaimed doctor of football Luke Masomere is set to bounce back into mainstream football coaching at Shabanie Mine with well-placed sources saying he has been earmarked to replace Wilson Mutekede, who has joined Zifa as technical director. The Midlands based side has had a good start to the season, picking four points from their first two assignments against champions Caps United and Highlanders, but have been forced to make changes to their technical team.The club last week pleaded with Zifa to allow Mutekede to continue coaching them until end of April, but the pleas fell through as Zifa already has a programme for their new technical director. They made a proposal to have him (Mutekede) continue until the end of the month, a proposal which we declined, said Zifa spokesperson Xolisani Gwesela. We have, however, urged them to immediately appoint a qualified coach because the association will not accept a situation where unqualified people take charge of our clubs, he said.Masomere refused to rule out a return to Zvishavane, but said he can only comment on the matter when the club approaches him. I have not received a call from the club, said Masomere. Or maybe if they called then I think I missed the call so I have to check my call log. I can t say I will accept or turn them away. I can only comment when the club officially engages me, he said.A source close to the club, however, told Sportszone.co.zw that the path is being cleared for Masomere s return. He is the best man for the job and he understands our culture very well, said a source, who declined to be named. The club has sounded him out and I am sure an announcement will be made very soon once terms have been agreed. But it must also be noted that we are not in a good financial position so this might be the biggest undoing, said the source.Club chairman Elias Marufu would not be drawn into commenting on who the target is, insisting that they are in discussion with Zifa over a smooth transition.Zifa have however said the issue is a closed chapter and what they only await is for the club to announce their next coach. I can t say what the solution is for now because what we are doing is we are talking to the association with the hope that they will assist us get a smooth transition, said Marufu. I can t say who the next coach will be at this stage, as we can only be able to proceed after our negotiations with Zifa, he said.Shabanie Mine fans have fond memories of Masomere, who won them the 2013 BancABC Super 8 Cup after beating the then Lloyd Mutasa coached town rivals FC Platinum in the final. Sportszone.co.zw.&nbsp;