Bulawayo Mayor Councillor Martin MoyoBULAWAYO mayor, Councillor Martin Moyo welcomes exhibitors and visitors to this year s edition of the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF), which begins today and will run till April 29. Running under the theme, Harnessing linkages for industrial development, Clr Moyo said the international trade showcase unites with the City of Bulawayo s mandate to revive industry and sustain industrial growth through multi-lateral linkages and partnerships. The City of Bulawayo is once again proud to host the annual international trade showcase, the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair. I extend a warm welcome to exhibitors and visitors. It s my hope that during your stay, you ll enjoy the warmth and hospitality of the City of Kings and its residents, said Clr Moyo.He said various efforts are underway for the repair and resuscitation of water, waste water, roads, and social amenities. As a service provider and an enabler of industrialisation, the City of Bulawayo is committed to rehabilitation of infrastructure for economic revival. Various efforts are underway for the repair and resuscitation of water, waste water, roads, and social amenities, through linkages with various stakeholders, said Clr Moyo. It s my hope that during this trade showcase, the City of Bulawayo will be able to meaningfully engage with potential investors and partners for the development of Bulawayo. I extend an invitation to local industry and commerce to seize this opportunity to forge partnerships with visitors, businesses and exhibitors who are showcasing at the Trade Fair. Clr Moyo said the City of Bulawayo is a beautiful city with a rich historic and cultural heritage. It s a tourism epicentre with environs rich in nature and wildlife, he said.The mayor invited people to visit the tourist attractions for an amazing experience in the City of Kings. May I also take this opportunity to invite you to visit our City of Bulawayo stand at the Trade Fair so as to get an insight of the investment opportunities that the city has to offer. On behalf of the residents of Bulawayo, siyalamukela (welcome). I wish you a pleasant and memorable stay in the City of Kings. 