Minister Nomthandazo Eunice MoyoThandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter BULAWAYO Province joined the rest of the country in commemorating the International Women s Day with a call for women to utilise bank loans to create wealth for themselves. Speaking during the belated commemorations last week, the guest of honour Minister of State for Provincial Affairs Cde Nomthandazo Eunice Moyo took time to pray for women to be bold and take action against inequalities. Much has been said about today s commemoration and all we can do is pray that God helps us to be bold and do all we can to bring development in all aspects. I charge all women to be bold, balanced and use their brains in every possible way to secure their future and that of their children, said Minister Moyo. Women are an important part of our community who have contributed a lot to our development as individuals. Mr Ziphongezipho Ndebele from Enkundleni Men Forum also encouraged men to support women s programmes. Men must be active in stopping violence against women which remains our greatest setback so far. We invite men to join us to end violence and to give women their full support even in domestic duties so they achieve empowerment, he said.Meanwhile, Tsholotsho South legislator Cde Zenzo Sibanda called on companies to improve working conditions to accommodate women.Speaking during the Tsholotsho District International Women s Day commemorations last Friday, Cde Sibanda said one of the most disgraceful and dehumanising challenges women still face in the workplace is that of sexual harassment. Many companies while hiring female employees ask them to open up about their marriage and family plans as they do not entertain the maternity leave and other flexibility perks, said Cde Sibanda. Managers and employers should never put a woman in a position to choose between her professional life and her personal life. Organisations should create an environment that promotes work and life balance. He urged them to address sexual harassment in work places which is hindering women from achieving their goals. Women fall prey to cunning men who lure them on the pretext of love and sexually harass them. Many men are of the notion that working women can be enticed easily on the promise of getting a job, he said.Cde Sibanda who was the guest of the honour added that, I would like to thank our traditional leaders and community leaders who have supported calls for gender and women empowerment. We thank the churches and all citizens for supporting and putting women at the centre of development. International Women s Day is celebrated yearly on March 8.@thamamoe