Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent THE Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) has said it is ready to conduct the Mwenezi East by-election slated for tomorrow with 62 polling stations having been established. In a telephone interview from Mwenezi yesterday, Zec Masvingo provincial elections officer Mr Zex Zirabada Pudurayi said all is set for the poll.About 45 000 people are registered to vote in the constituency. The seat fell vacant after the death of Cde Joshua Moyo in December last year.Zanu-PF candidate Cde Joosbi Omar will battle it out with Mr Turner Mango of Free Zimbabwe Congress (FZC) and Mr Welcome Masuku of National Constitutional Assembly (NCA).ZimPF s Mr Kudakwashe Bhasikiti-Chuma chickened out of the poll recently.Mr Pidurayi said election officers had been trained and by yesterday mid-day deployment was still in progress. We are ready for the Mwenezi poll. We have established 62 polling stations with Ward 13 having the highest number of 33 given its size, said Mr Pudurayi.He said there is enough manpower for the poll.Mr Pudurayi said the Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) had also deployed adequate personnel for provide security during and after the election. We have managed to train all polling officers and their agents. There is going to be six polling officers per station and three election agents per each polling station. However, the number of election agents will depend on the financial capacity of the candidates, as they have to cater for their upkeep. We have more than 47 000 voters who have registered for this by-election but with the manpower we have I hope we will be able to serve all voters who come between 7AM and 7PM, he said.He said people are expected to bring their national identity cards to cast their votes.Cde Omar yesterday said it was now only a matter of time before he gets into Parliament as he has done a lot of ground to win resoundingly. It is just a matter of time before assuming a new title, Honourable . Come Saturday, I will be one of the country s legislators, said Cde Omar.Mr Pudurayi said the Mwenezi East by-election will be conducted concurrently with two rural district council by-elections in Bikita and Zaka. @walterbmswazie3