Showbiz Reporter ALL is set for the first ever Fusion Music Festival scheduled for Hillside Dams in Bulawayo this afternoon. The family friendly festival to promote the performance of live music and boost entertainment in the city will be held at the Waterfront. Musicians including Djembe Monks, ASAPH, Carlos Jiri, Outfit Band, Jase and Mandi Mash will take turns to entertain festival attendees. 3D Family DJs Liz, Ras Obido, Crazy Black and Liz will also be on rotation at the event that starts at 11AM and ends at 7.30PM.Entrance to the venue will be $5 for adults and $2 for children with people that will bring cooler boxes expected to pay $3.A braai area has been put in place with burgers, hotdogs, clothes, arts and crafts being sold. A candy station will be available for kids entertainment as well as a jumping castle, zip line and face painting.Spokesperson for the inaugural festival, Chrystal Mushonga, said they were happy with the response they got from corporates and the public. We weren t able to achieve what we d set out to do in regards to sponsorship from companies, but overall, the response has been good, said Mushonga. The response from the people of Bulawayo has been massive and the event on Saturday (today) promises to be a success. We ve been getting feedback from Harare even and the next pop-up event is already being planned for with major partnerships on the books. She said they were hosting the event to bring a new fun vibe to Bulawayo while raising funds for those in need as some of the proceeds from the event will be channelled to various charity organisations in the city. Bulawayo has so much talent and there s a lot the community can do to also help those around us that need a helping hand. The Fusion Music Fest is the platform that ll make this happen, said Mushonga. The Fusion is more than just a concert. It s a passionate blend of music, people and nature. Taking a leaf from Unplugged, Fusion will be an experience for the whole family. Some of the proceeds from the festival will be donated to Sikhulile Zenzele Trust that caters for children with disabilities. These children are in need of prosthetics and orthotics and we felt we needed to support them with the help of fellow citizens. Rapper ASAPH said he was more than ready to rock the stage. I m pumped up to perform at the festival. Hip hop lovers should be ready to see me perform my songs alongside a live band. They ll be blown away during the day. &nbsp;