Beatrice TonhodzayiYoliswa Dube ZIMPAPERS, the only fully intergrated media company in the country, will at this year s Zimbabwe International Trade Fair (ZITF) be showcasing its latest product, the Zimpapers Television Network (ZTN). The ZTN is a recently launched production house which will be producing television content, documentaries and corporate videos among other products.Zimpapers public relations and corporate affairs manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi said the television crew was already working with some corporates who are interested in developing their brands by doing video productions. Our TV crew will be at the Zimpapers stand ready to offer their services. We ll also be showcasing our Mobile News that we ve recently re-launched. Our digital team will also be at the stand making sure that you re able to access news on your mobile phone, said Ms Tonhodzayi.She said Zimpapers was exhibiting under the theme, We are going to be telling Zimpapers stories , with a very clear and concise message of what Zimpapers is about. We re telling the story of the biggest media firm in the country; the only fully integrated media company in the country. We will tell our story as a business that cuts across the newspaper business, commercial printing and broadcasting but we also have a new offering that we re excited about that we re going to be showcasing and sharing with the business community at the ZITF, the ZTN, said Ms Tonhodzayi.She said the company had also opened a Digihub Shop where electronic gadgets such as phones, refrigerators and television sets are sold. Our digital team will also be going around filming content of everything that will be happening. Live streaming through numerous websites will be done as you know Zimpapers is found across the spectrum. In terms of our footprint, we ll have our traditional newspapers which will be on sale, said Ms Tonhodzayi. We ll also have our radio station, Star FM, broadcasting from different stands so corporates that are interested in having their products showcased or having broadcasts done from their stands; this is the opportunity to do so. We ll also be showcasing our new radio station based in Mutare, Diamond FM. For the past few years, the company has won various prizes for its unique display and presentation of its products at the ZITF.Zimpapers publishes The Herald, The Sunday Mail, Chronicle, Sunday News, Manica Post, Kwayedza, Umthunywa, Southern Times, Zimtravel, H-Metro, B-Metro, Bridal Magazine, and also runs broadcasting stations Star FM, Diamond FM, Capitalk Radio and Nyaminyami FM.