Dr ChomboPatrick Chitumba, Midlands Bureau Chief ZANU-PF secretary for administration Dr Ignatius Chombo is on a nationwide tour of provinces as part of preparations for the 2018 elections. Dr Chombo who was in the company of his deputy Cde July Moyo and directors in his department, made his first stop in the Midlands province where he met members of the Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC) in Gweru.Dr Chombo said the President and First Secretary of Zanu PF Cde Mugabe has in the past lamented the state of the party s administration hence the meetings he was holding with PCC to check on the operations of the party organs.He said the President urged party members to ensure that sound administrative systems were in place to enhance efficiency and improve service delivery as well as accountability at all levels. The party Constitution also obliges the secretary for administration to supervise and co-ordinate the overall efficiency of the party machinery. Our task as the secretariat therefore is to revamp the administrative systems of the party to enhance vibrancy, efficiency and best practices, said Dr Chombo.He said proper party structures will ensure a resounding win for the party come the 2018 general elections.Dr Chombo said with proper structures in place, going to the ballot was just a formality because the party would have won the elections before the actual voting. President Mugabe has ordered us to work on our structures and mobilise more people to join the party. If we achieve that now, we would have won the 2018 election. It s not about rigging as they claim but it s about mobilisation of voters, he said.Dr Chombo said in order to have effective teams to mobilise supporters, the party was going to improve working conditions for people in its administrative structures from party headquarters to the provinces.He said party directors and provincial chairpersons would soon get new vehicles. Yes the salary we pay might be little but we have put our workers on medical aid and funeral cover. In a week or so they will get new vehicles and buses. We have also secured new administration offices in Harare as space at the party headquarters was becoming small, he said.Dr Chombo who is also the Minister of Home Affairs said today he will be in Lupane in Matabeleland North province before another meeting in Bulawayo later. We want Zanu-PF to win the coming elections and continue with its programmes to uplift the people s lives. You must therefore be vigilant and be on the look out for small opposition parties and non-governmental organisations that have an agenda of removing us from power. As we speak Masvingo has 700 NGOs but I don t see what they are doing on the ground except to destabilise us, he said.Zanu-PF Midlands provincial chairperson Engineer Daniel Mackenzie Ncube said his province was working to increase party cells.He said he was confident that the party will retain all its constituencies in the province and reclaim those in the hands of the opposition.@pchitumba1