Melissa Mpofu, Showbiz Editor Delta Beverages, organisers of the annual Castle Tankard are hard at work preparing for the prestigious horse racing event which is in its 55th edition. Once again, there will be more to the racing event slated for May 6 at Borrowdale race course as a lot of entertainment activities have been lined up for the day.Winky D, Sulumani Chimbetu, Andy Muridzo and DJ Stavo are just some of the artistes billed to perform. A fashion show will once again be held with those attending expected to dress to the nines.Castle consumers are not being left out as they are being given an opportunity to engage with the brand through a nationwide competition which will see winners being accorded VIP treatment at the race. For the first time ever, consumers of Castle Lager will participate in a promotion named the Castle Tankard Experience and get a chance to win 1 of 20 Castle Tankard Experience packages valued at $1 000 each for them and their partner, said Delta Beverages marketing manager, Patricia Murambinda. The package includes two nights for two at the Meikles Hotel, an Edgars voucher worth $500, VIP access to the Castle Tankard event and $100 worth of betting coupons. To enter the competition, Castle consumers need to buy the 375ml pint of Castle Lager and collect four crowns marked underneath P4P and seal them in an entry envelope provided at various outlets. Once complete, the form must be deposited in redemption boxes available at participating outlets. To add to the excitement the mid promotion draw for the Pint 4 Pint promotion will be held at the Castle Tankard event. The prizes for the mid promotion draw are $5 000 for first prize, $3 000 for second and $2 000 for third. $500 consolation prizes will be given away to five lucky winners, said Murambinda.She said the Castle Tankard horse racing event had grown over the years and they were excited to be hosting it again this year. The Castle Tankard is the first ever sponsored horse race in Africa and it s no exaggeration that it remains the most prestigious horse race in Zimbabwe. The castle tankard horse race has left a formidable mark to reckon within our horse racing fraternity. It has stood the test of time, and is growing bigger and better every year. It s a race with a history to our country, one which has helped to develop communities around us through employment creation. &nbsp;