THE verification of results or, confirmation of results, is the process through which clients are able to authenticate their academic certificates. This process has become a norm for public institutions, colleges and universities as well as corporate organisations. This week, the examiner would like to give an in-depth brief of this process for the benefit of clients locally, regionally and internationally. a) Who can verify or confirm results?Results verification is the process of authenticating that the certificate presented holds accurate results and information.Locally, we have universities and colleges who send copies of certificates presented by applicants for verification. Corporate organisations and public institutes also use this service to verify the results of aspirant employees. Embassies are also able to use this service when they receive VISA applications.Regionally and internationally, the main clients for this service are qualifying authorities such as SAQA, NQA and WES. The role of Zimsec is to indicate whether the submitted documentation is authentic and whether the candidate involved indeed qualified for the claimed award(s) from Zimsec. The consent form of the candidate is attached and sent to Zimsec along with scanned copies of the certificates for verification.b) What is the procedure to follow?First of all, it is important to note that verification must be requested by a corporate authority not an individual. The client whose results are being verified can either write a letter or email to Zimsec so as to receive the correct banking details and also to provide the accurate information pertaining to the certificates. There is a fee which is payable for the verification process according to the different organisations requesting the verification. Once payment has been made for verification and the relevant courier fee, the verification process will commence. For local universities who have bulk entries, they send the certificates to the confirmations department who will process them and return them timeously.c) How long does the process take?For local universities, the verification process takes between 24 to 48 hours.For regional and international education authorities, it may take 10 to 14 working days.For embassies and corporate organisations, the process takes between seven to 10 working daysd) Who do you contact for the verification?Zimsec has a department which is dedicated to providing the service of verification of results. To request for verification or access details pertaining to the process, please contact the Confirmations department on email confirmation@zimsec.co.zw or telephone any Zimsec office for more information.For more information email: pr.infor@zimsec.co.zw, Whatsapp 0772 148786 or visit www.zimsec.co.zw