Khama BilliatCape Town Bafana Bafana legend Sibusiso Zuma hopes PSL clubs will become more lenient by letting players leave when European teams come knocking for their services. In an exclusive interview with Sport24, the 41-year-old weighed in on the current Mamelodi Sundowns and Keagan Dolly transfer saga.The Brazilians and the former Ajax Cape Town midfielder are currently embroiled in a court battle after the club reportedly amended Dolly s buyout clause.It was revealed by Dolly s father that the agreed buyout clause was set at R750 000 when he rejoined Sundowns from the Urban Warriors.However, reports suggest that the club is looking to further bank on the player s form and hoping to secure a deal of more than R10m.Zuma believes that the 24-year-old maestro is ready to play in any league in the world, with clubs from France, Greece and England looking to sign the winger. I hope he does (leave). He is ready, said Zuma. He is ready for any league in the world. Both him (Dolly) and (Khama) Billiat. As with any coach looking to hold onto talent, Sundowns boss Pitso Mosimane recently came out saying that Dolly needs one more season in the PSL before jetting off to Europe to pursue his playing career elsewhere.However, Zuma says that as soon as teams from Europe start to inquire about PSL players their clubs should not tie them down. Our players, they are always ready because once they re in that form&#8230; they re supposed to leave a long time ago , Zuma continued. Remember, they re still going to learn a lot that side (overseas) so give them that chance while they are young to learn and get better. I think they (Dolly and Billiat) are ready to go, he added.Sundowns released a statement over the weekend in an attempt to clear up the confusion surrounding the Dolly-transfer saga.The club released a copy of an e-mail they received from Brian Marwood, the Managing Director of City Football Services.The e-mail states that Dolly and Sundowns have been invited to Manchester City Football Academy to discuss a possible transfer deal.Meanwhile, it will be interesting to see whether or not Dolly will pitch up for training on Wednesday (January 18) as the club begin their preparations for the second half of the PSL season.Sundowns are set to face Bloemfontein Celtic on Wednesday, February 8 at the Dr Molemela Stadium. Sport24.