Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THERE has been an outbreak of the fall army worm in six districts in Matabeleland North, a senior government official has said. Matabeleland North provincial Agritex officer Mr Dumisani Nyoni said in some places as much as 80 percent of crops have been destroyed.He urged farmers to be on the lookout for the fall army worm and check their maize crops at least three times daily as the pests have the potential to destroy crops in a short space of time.Mr Nyoni said it was important for farmers to thoroughly check their crops and make sure they are safe from the fall army worm. The fall army worm is more dangerous than the army worm. It s difficult and expensive to contain if left to multiply. Pesticides have to be applied early to kill the worms. I want to urge farmers to pay close attention to their crops and check their crops at least three times daily. If they see any suspicious damage on their crops, farmers should immediately report to us so that we advise them before further damage, said Mr Nyoni.He said while the country was receiving good rains, the fall army worm, was a threat to crops. We have received reports from farmers in Hwange, Lupane, Umguza, Binga, Bubi and Tsholotsho districts. Only Nkayi District has not reported. In some parts of the province 80 percent of the crops have been damaged The outbreak is giving us headaches because this was a season for the farmers to produce good yields due to the good rains. We re on the ground assisting farmers and working closely with them to control the worms, said Mr Nyoni.He said the fall army worm is traditionally found in the United States and probably came with imported maize.The name fall army worm is derived from the pest s feeding habits. The worms eat everything in an area, and once the food supply is exhausted, the entire army moves to the next available food source.The fall army worm recently invaded Zambia, posing a threat to crops in six of the Zambian provinces.Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development Minister Dr Joseph Made on Thursday said the fall army worm had mainly attacked Matabeleland North, targeting early planted maize under command agriculture.He said the country was on high alert for the fall army worm and a possible army worm attack on crops. @pamelashumba1