Mebelo NjekwaTobias Mandoreba in Hwange THE Hwange FC executive has kept faith in coach Mebelo Njekwa and given him a fresh mandate to lead the technical bench for the 2017 Premier Soccer League season. Hwange FC chairman Joseph Zulu put to rest speculation that a new head coach would be hired by confirming Njekwa s stay. We have given Mebelo a fresh mandate to be in charge of our team this year. We have faith in his abilities as a coach and we will also play our part in fully supporting him and the rest of the technical set up, said Zulu. Last year we ended the season in a rather disappointing position and as an executive, we will set clear targets for the technical bench so that there is notable improvement this time around. Hwange is a big brand in Zimbabwean football and it s high time we start fighting for the league title, he said.In a separate interview, Njekwa said he was aiming to do better this season and to continue building his profile as a coach. I am happy with the faith entrusted in me to coach Hwange this season. Last year was a learning phase and this year we want a more respectable finish.We are aiming for a top six finish and it can be achieved through hard work, said Njekwa. A number of players will be out of my team for one reason or the other, but I believe it s a perfect opportunity for some youngsters, especially the disbanded Under-20 team, to shine and make the grade. We will cast our net wider by looking for players from around the country to beef up our squad and make it competent. Njekwa is a holder of a Caf A coaching licence and German Olympic Level 3 certificate. He is also a former Mighty Warriors assistant coach.The existing Hwange technical set up includes Chenjerayi Dube (goalkeepers trainer), Kenneth Nyape (fitness coach), Joyce Sarandega (physiotherapist), Didymus Ngorora, Joseph Nyoni and Dingilizwe Dingani (medical team).The coalminers, who finished 12th last season, will be conducting trials from January 24 ahead of pre-season training two weeks later.@tobymandox