Crystabel Chikayi, Features Reporter THE curtain came down on the Wholesale Centre Liquor Hub Christmas promotion recently with one lucky shopper driving away in a Renault Kwid, which was the grand prize. Lady luck was on Mr Nkosana Moyo s side who was handed the car during the promotion draw by Liquor Hub director Mr Raj Modi.To win the grand prize, shoppers had to buy participating products worth $50 and for the consolation prizes; they had to buy groceries worth $20.In order to enter the competition, consumers had to fill in their personal details at the back of the original till slip and drop it in the entry box provided in store.Also up for grabs were various consolation prizes including solar geysers, fridges, bicycles, television sets and DStv decoders.Mr Moyo had just won a $50 shopping voucher when he was announced winner of the Renault Kwid.It seems he is one very lucky man as he has won a Mitsubishi Colt from a similar promotion sometime in 2015. I was confident I would win something from this draw but I really wasn t expecting to win two prizes. I really didn t expect to win this big but glory to God I m today s winner, said Mr Moyo.The audience at the draw walked away with 2017 calendars, Liquor Hub branded t-shirts and Liquor Hub-produced Everest water and Divine vodka.Liquor Hub purchasing manager Mr Stanford Mazura said the competition has grown and will continue to improve. The promotion ran through last year s festive season and it was our way of giving back to our loyal customers. Our promotions are our way of giving back to the communities that support the business, said Mr Mazura.Liquor Hub is involved in various corporate social responsibility programmes and supports sport through holding the annual Liquor Hub 10km and 5km Charity Walk.The company also sponsors the Southern Region Soccer Star Awards.Liquor Hub is also involved with various charities including Mustard Seed Children s Home, St Francis Children s Hospital and Ethandweni Children s Home in Kezi where they make several donations. We have very loyal customers who purchase our products such as Everest water and Divine vodka. Through our promotions, we show our gratitude to them for demonstrating confidence in our supplies, said Mr Mazura. I urge members of the public to continue shopping at Wholesale Centre Groceries and Liquor Hub as we have a wide range of products at our one-stop shop. Prices are low and competitive at wholesale rate. We offer ice cold beers and beverages. People are able to shop using plastic money, RTGs, and EcoCash. We also offer the best customer service. Plans are afoot to establish a new branch in Bulawayo s Cowdray Park suburb, which would also create employment. We plan to construct a 9 000sq metres shopping mall in Cowdray Park and increase production on beverages, alcohol and water, said Mr MazuraWholesale Centre Liquor Hub was officially opened on February 14, 2015 by Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa.It is owned by business mogul, Mr Modi, and is located at No 58 Fife Street between Fourth and Fifth Avenues.