Showbiz Reporter BIG Brother Naija, a reality TV show, launched in grand style on Sunday, with 12 housemates revealed and ushered into the house by show s host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, during the live broadcast on DStv on channel 198 and GOtv channel 29. Viewers from Nigeria and across the continent were introduced to Bally, Bisola, CoCoIce, Efe, Gifty, Kemen, Marvis, Miyonse, Soma, TBoss, ThinTallTony and Uriel, all talented young people from different walks of life, who will be competing for N25 million over the next 11 weeks.The opening show had social media buzzing with viewers commenting on the various personalities displayed with some already identifying with their favourite housemates.The first two housemates to walk into the house were Uriel, a 29-year-old singer and hair maker from Imo state and Kemen a personal fitness trainer from Akwa Ibom. They both got things off to an exciting start with Uriel s animated chatter with Ebuka and Kemen showing off his ribbed body.The next set of housemates to walk the stage and into the house were CoCoIce, a rapper focused on pursuing her music career; Bally, a statistician who recently quit his job to be a part of the show and Marvis, a basketball loving female and Mass Communication graduate. The next two housemates to enter the Big Brother Naija house were ThinTallTony, tall singer, dancer and poet and Gifty, another actress and model.Up next were Soma, Bisola and Miyonse. Soma, the housemate with the boy-next-door look said he is a singer with a strong love for science and gadgets.Bisola, is a 30-year-old mother, actress and singer from Ogun State who said she has a seven-year-old daughter rooting for her back at home. Miyonse, a chef from Abuja revealed that his strategy was to cook and get the housemates to fall in love with him. Efe and TBoss were the final two housemates to be revealed. Efe, a Delta state indigene showed the Warri boy in him when he attempted to strip right on stage while 32-year-old TBoss announced that she had seven tattoos and eight piercings.According to Biggie no housemate would be evicted this week. Instead he plans to introduce an additional two housemates to the house, bringing the total number to 14.The opening show also featured amazing performances by Nigeria s leading afro pop sensation, Yemi Alade and Highlife royalty, Flavour. Both artistes added spice to the show when they belted out their popular songs complete with electrifying dance steps. The Big Brother theme song was performed by K9, an R&amp;B vocalist and songwriter.The rules for eviction this week are that each house mate should get as many likes from their fellow house mates, with the two with the least likes being evicted on Sunday.