Rtd Col Claudius MakovaWalter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent ZIMBABWE People First Masvingo provincial chairman Retired Colonel Claudius Makova has resigned in the wake of the party s crushing defeat in the Bikita West by-election won resoundingly by Zanu- PF. Rtd Col Makova has shouldered the blame for his party s dismal performance in its first attempt to have a member in Parliament.The ZimPF Masvingo provincial chairperson was previously accused of handpicking the party s losing candidate Mr Kudakwashe Gopo.Mr Gopo who managed to get only 2 453 votes lost by a huge margin to Zanu-PF s Cde Beauty Chabaya who garnered 13 156 votes in an election in which she faced six male candidates.Mr Madock Chivasa of the National Constitutional Assembly (NCA) polled 343 votes, Mr Terence Makumbo of Progressive Democrats of Zimbabwe (PDZ) got 132 votes, Mr Innocent Muzvimbiri an Independent candidate had 725 votes while Mr Heya Shoko another independent candidate managed 76 votes.Rtd Col Makova confirmed the latest development saying while he had resigned as the provincial chairman, he would remain an ordinary member of the party. It s true that I tendered my resignation to my president Dr Joice Mujuru yesterday morning (Monday) as provincial chairman because we have lost the Bikita West by-election. I accept blame for this loss and I feel that someone with fresh ideas should take over. I am now over 70 years old and we have agreed that elderly members should remain in the party as advisors and not office bearers. Prior to this by-election, I had told my colleagues that if we lose, I would step down as the provincial chairman and that is what I have done. I have stood by my words and would expect others to do the same, said Rtd Col Makova.He said despite the differences that the provincial executive had over participating in the by-election, the decision to take part was supported by the national executive that includes its leader Dr Mujuru. I know that there are some of our members who were against us participating in this election and are saying I should shoulder the blame for our defeat.We had differences when we selected our candidate Mr Gopo but later the national executive led by Dr Mujuru changed its position and supported my idea to participate, Rtd Col Makova said.In the run up to the by-election, ZimPF was rocked by divisions with founder member Mr Dzikamai Mavhaire leading a group which was against taking part in the election while on the other hand Rtd Col Makova led those who were adamant that the party should contest.Rtd Col Makova said despite Zanu PF winning by a wide margin, ZimPF had done exceptionally well by garnering more than 2 000 votes. Given the circumstances, we did exceptionally well. Getting more than 2 000 votes is not a joke for first timers. MDC-T garnered 24 percent of the votes in 2013 general elections and we managed 14 percent in a by-election. That is not bad for starters, he said.Rtd Col Makova said some members of his party supported an independent candidate Mr Shoko but he performed dismally by garnering the lowest number of votes. @walterbmswazie2