Egypt goalkeeper Essam El Hadary is keen on winning the Afcon 2017 title after his side edged Morocco 1-0 on Sunday at Stade de Port Gentil to progress to the semi-finals. The 44-year old is the oldest player to feature at Africa s premier football tournament and is the only goalkeeper yet to concede a goal at the Gabon showpiece.El Hadary took some time off his busy schedule to exclusively speak to supersport.com on Egypt s absence from Afcon for three editions, their hunger for more titles and some of his memorable Afcon moments since his Pharaohs debut in 1998. We have been absent for three editions because we had difficult circumstances in the country since 2011 and we did not have a normal regular competition in Egyptian football. It was temporarily suspended for some years and sports activities, including football, were up and down because we did not have a regular national competition. Until now we are playing behind closed doors. With the situation much improved since then, the Pharaohs have found their feet and qualified for Afcon 2017 at the expense of fellow giants Nigeria and now in full contention for a record eighth crown.El Hadary revealed that, Our objective is to show that we were absent because of special circumstances in our country and not because of performance. It was out of our hands. Now we are here and of course our objective is to show that we are the Pharaohs. We are the winners of seven titles and we are looking forward to an eighth title. We are going to do our best in this tournament and go forward and hopefully we shall reach the final. We all wish to claim the trophy. El Hadary is a three-time winner with Egypt at Afcon in 2006, 2008 and 2010 and adding another to his trophy cabinet is his top priority at the moment.Winning at home was one of his favourite Afcon moments. He recalls, I was playing at home in front of the Egyptian crowd, more than 100 000 spectators so it was different and it felt like indeed I was playing at home. The moment that I lifted the trophy with my teammates and we were declared champions of the continent was very special. In 2008 and 2010, we were away in Ghana and Angola but still we were defending our title so yes they were my best moments. Of course playing at my first Afcon in 1998 was incredible. El Hadary has made 149 appearances (friendlies and official) for Egypt and has conceded 146 goals since making his debut on March 26, 1996 against South Africa.He has only picked up the ball from the back of his net a mere 15 times in 26 matches so far at the Africa Cup of Nations and he will be hoping to avoid conceding en route to winning the title in Gabon. Supersport.