Thandeka Moyo, Chronicle Reporter A number of children in Bulawayo have, in recent weeks, suffered from febrile convulsions that normally affect children under the age of five years. Cases have been attended to at some city health facilities, including Mpilo Central Hospital.A febrile convulsion is a fit or seizure caused by a fever. It is caused by a sudden change in a child s body temperature and is usually associated with a fever.A parent Ms Nomsa Ndlovu said her son aged two years had been rushed to Mpilo after he had seizures. He was normal and all of a sudden had a seizure and started fitting. We feared that he was going to die at that instance and we rushed him to hospital where they gave him an antibiotic before admitting him. He survived the attack and I noticed that several children in his ward had the same problem, said Ms Ndlovu.She said after a three-day stay at Mpilo, seven more children were brought suffering from the same problem. I thought he was going to die but am happy, he made it! Dr Solwayo Ngwenya, Mpilo s clinical director encouraged members of the public to be always on the alert and rush anyone having convulsions to the hospital. Firstly I would like to say all types of convulsions require immediate medical attention thus members of the public should always go to the hospital. Febrile convulsions are normal and we deal with it all the time, said Dr Ngwenya. We have managed to treat and contain that condition and I encourage parents to bring children so that we treat them. However, the fact that I am saying they are normal doesn t mean it must not be taken seriously as some of these convulsions can lead to death. He urged members of the public to desist from self- diagnosis in such cases. We encourage people to seek medical advice as our team is working hard despite a number of challenges to restore people s health. Our service delivery has been improving and we promise that we will deal with all who seek attention including adults who may also experience convulsions, said Dr Ngwenya.@thamamoe