Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent DJ Crazy Black has for the past two years made a name for himself at a popular Bulawayo spot, Hartsfield Tshisanyama. But since the beginning of this year, the renowned wheel spinner has moved on and found a new home in the name of Club Connect situated at Cecil Hotel. Joining a list of renowned names in Bulawayo entertainment circles such as DJs Prince and Kead Wikead, Crazy Black wants to carve a name for himself at the joint like he did before.Born Tendayi Mamombe in Bulawayo, DJ Crazy Black left Hartsfield Tshisanyama allegedly over money issues after the failure of 3D Events to make good on promises made prior to a few high profile shows including the oversubscribed and ill-tempered Black Motion gig at the end of last year.After leaving Tshisanyama, DJ Crazy Black was taken up by Club Connect at the beginning of this year, and he feels excited, saying he was up for the challenge. It was time for me to move on in life, that s why I left Tshisanyama. I believe that I made the right decision and this new stint I m doing is just a new challenge that I feel I m up for. I m excited to show off what I can do on the decks in a new atmosphere in front of a new crowd, said Crazy Black.Describing himself as a shy person, Crazy Black said his natural persona falls away when he is on the decks.He said he started playing in 2007 at a friend s house in Morningside suburb before deciding to finish up school at Mzingwane High School. I started playing in 2007 at my close friend, Costa Kapundanga s house with a few close friends. I was only 14 years old and by then it was still a dream. I had to do school first. It was after school in 2014 when I started playing at our neighbourhood bar called The Village, said Crazy Black. From the response from patrons I decided to take my talent into the city. I met 3D events who gave me a platform to perform at Hartsfield Tshisanyama. This opened doors for me get to where I am now. At Hartsfield Tshisanyama, Crazy Black was known for his distinct sharp voice that pierced the air in between his mixes of a wide range of tracks, getting the party started and keeping the dance floor packed. Now this voice and skills will be giving patrons of Club Connect many nights to remember. In general I m an all-genre DJ, but I m mostly known for Naija and house music. I also have a good voice on the microphone that connects with the public. I can also play for different crowds including weddings and business functions. I m a DJ that loves to see people enjoy what I do, said Crazy Black.Looking into the future, DJ Crazy Black said he wants to set up a music production studio by the end of the year. @bonganinkunzi.