Cosmas Tsano ZuluAllen Khumalo, Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS goalkeepers coach Cosmas Tsano Zulu has advised his players not to participate in social games in the off-season. Zulu also discouraged them from drug use or engaging in any forms of football to minimise risks of injury.An inconsistent run in the second half of the 2016 season saw Bosso finishing in third place despite threatening to snatch the league title at one point.Zulu said his players must have a thorough rest so that they are fully fit when they reassemble to start preparations for the new season.He said players that took part in any friendly or social soccer games during the off-season break increased their chances of sustaining career-ending injuries. We encourage players to have a proper rest during the break. We have a long season ahead and we need players to recover. Some of the players have injuries that need healing during the break so that when the league resumes they will be fit, said Zulu. I know some players will feel guilty if they do nothing during the break, but sometimes all that is needed is a break away from training, especially during this modern day football schedule where there are a lot of games. So the players must sit back, relax and enjoy the break responsibly. They will have about 30 to 40 games to play when the season starts so I don t see why they should be engaging in any funny activities, he said.The veteran coach also said all players must avoid engaging in alcohol and drugs as that will shorten their football careers. Football is a very physical and competitive sport so it s vital that players stay away from any drugs that will shorten their sporting careers. The purpose of this break is for them to enjoy the festive season and spend some quality time with their friends and families. They must get their minds off football until we call them back to start activating the muscles again. We will pick things up when we reassemble for the 2017 season preparations, Zulu said. @khumzallen