Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls VICTORIA Falls-based Zifa Southern Region Division One League side Amagagasi are targetting promotion to the Premier Soccer League in 2018. The resort town team finished third in the 2016 campaign behind champions Bantu Rovers and runner-ups Bulawayo Chiefs.The club last week reshuffled its executive, but retained the technical staff as well as the bulk of its core players.Bekithemba Mlotshwa took over as chairman from Sam Sibanda, who is now secretary-general. Mlotshwa said their aim was to win promotion this year to bring PSL action to Victoria Falls. Last year our target was to end the season in fourth and we surpassed that by finishing third, hence we can safely say we achieved our goal. This coming season we are looking at the top spot. We want promotion to the topflight league, said Mlotshwa.He, however, conceded that the team succumbed to too much pressure after the race turned into a tight three-horse contest last season. The challenge came in our last three matches that we played outside Victoria Falls which involved too much travelling. Going into the new season, we have beefed up our technical team with Zibonele Ncube remaining head coach. We asked him to rope in people he wants to work with and he has identified Ndoga Nyoni and Dumile Mpofu as his assistants, said Mlotshwa.He said the club is also working flat out to market itself and fundraise so that it can appeal to the community.Sibanda said they were hoping to retain all players and funders, who are generally well-wishers from the community. What we singled out as one of our biggest challenges last season is losing one of our key players Nhlanhla Ndlovu to Highlanders. That affected our rhythm as we couldn t get the goals we were getting from him, said Sibanda. At the moment coaches are identifying players and we hope by the end of February we will be done. Our plan is to retain the core of our players, which we have done. In terms of sponsorship, companies are sceptical because teams have come and gone in Victoria Falls hence they aren t sure if Amagagasi is here to stay. .@ncubeleon