Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau ZIMBABWE Karate Union secretary-general Steven Charandura says decentralisation of karate will be among their top priorities as they prepare for the upcoming season. The karate mother body had their annual general meeting over the weekend in Harare to review their performance in the previous year and to map the way forward for 2017.Charandura said they are hoping to make the sport accessible to everyone interested and will be coming up with a consolidated calendar of events soon, after meeting their stakeholders. For 2017 we have a number of issues that we are looking at, a number of activities we want to achieve in accordance with our strategic plan. We are on course and I think we are ahead in terms of our activities. We are decentralising karate from towns. So our expansion to districts, wards will be key. We want to keep the momentum. But we are going to do our level best to see that every child in Zimbabwe does karate and in schools we want children to be trained by qualified people. I think next week we will consolidate our calendar and budget and come up with a report we will submit to the Sports Commission, said Charandura.The meeting also saw the recently appointed interim president Paul Danisa and treasurer Stewart Maramba officially assume office.The two are coming in to replace former president Joe Rugwete and treasurer Morag Flight, who both stepped down before the expiry of their tenure. We co-opted our former technical director Paul Danisa and Stewart Maramba, he is a parent. He has been very supportive, has been in our sub committees, we co-opted him after consultation with him and he accepted to help us for the time being. Paul Danisa is not new to our executive. He is a team player, he is being a team player and an active one. I believe it s not in the position but the role that one plays in the team. His hard work is what we recognised to make him lead the team. I think we are not expecting him to bring anything new but it s a continuation from where we left because our guideline is our strategic plan, said Charandura.The ZKU secretary-general said despite facing financial constraints in 2016 they managed to increase the number of teams that participated in regional and international tournaments. In 2016 we managed to send more teams out of Zimbabwe under very difficult circumstances. Our economy is not favourable at the meantime. But we managed to send our teams out and they did well. The issue of compliance, I think we are the torch bearers in Zimbabwe sport and we have said this is a must. We have some individual styles that have been struggling but we are trying to encourage them and put our foot on the ground for everyone to be compliant, said Charandura