Pattern and Style with Yoliswa DubeI HAD been following one Facebook page for a while. It had some of the most beautiful dresses I ve ever seen in my life and I thought I d look good in a few of them.I loved how clean and classy the dresses looked and obviously how professional the store selling the dresses generally seemed.Then I went on a trip to Harare, where the shop is located.I decided to visit the shop, as any other business while I was there.I wasn t ready to make any purchases but I really just wanted to experience the store and maybe try on a few things.You know, for when I had the money.So, off to the store I went but I was never ready for what I saw when I got there.The shop was situated in a bank building in Avondale that s a decent enough location, I thought.But when I opened the door and walked into the store, it wasn t really a store.It was just a tiny unflattering room with two rails of dresses on either side. It was such an underwhelming room and guess what it cost $1 to try on a dress!I didn t even have that buck!I couldn t believe how much faith I had had in this shop, especially with my general loath of online shopping.But I had been sold a dream. It looked nothing like it did on the Facebook page. And the dresses, well, they were just dresses. I realised then that it s such an easy task advertising one s products nowadays.Just take a few good pictures, edit them, post them on your social media page and voila it s done! This is why it s important now more than ever to be a vigilant shopper. With the advent of the Internet, it s so easy for businesses to sell a dream and guess what you ll fall for it.Save yourself the emotional stress and make sure you keep your online purchases independent of your wardrobe.A significant number of business owners are now taking their merchandise online because an increasing number of people are consumers of the Internet.What is worse is you actually buying these clothes after seeing them in pictures and not in person.What they don t tell you is after you pay they re not responsible for how the garment looks on your body.One of the cardinal rules to being stylish is before you buy a piece of clothing try it on first and make sure it fits you well.Clothes are an investment; you have to invest wisely.You re investing in your self-mage and most importantly the brand that is you.You can t afford to sit back and hope your clothes will fit once they arrive that just causes unnecessary chest pains.In order to be considered fashion savvy, your clothes are going to have to fit you well and this can only happen if you get into the habit of trying on clothes first before you buy them.Don t get me wrong &#8211; there s absolutely nothing wrong with looking at clothes on the Internet, just don t buy off it, look for ideas that will help you shop and put outfits together.Because we don t live in a vacuum, there s always room for research and getting inspiration from other people.Once you walk into a clothing store, be very honest with yourself. Be aware of your body type and skin tone. These play a key role on the general outlook of your clothes.Don t buy a smaller size with the hope that you ll lose weight for it you won t. Buy clothes that fit you now.Before you approach the cash counter, while you re still in the fitting room, concentrate on how the clothing piece you re trying on looks on your body.Worry about its general outlook and not just the fact that you like it. My mother always says right dress wrong body! You may like the dress but it may not necessarily look good on you.Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa, visit my blog, www.stayera247.blogspot.com or like my Facebook page Pattern &amp; Style.