Senior Business Reporter BULAWAYO City Council (BCC) has intensified efforts to lure investments in different sectors of the economy as part of its long-term objective. According to BCC s investment prospectus, the local authority was seeking potential investors in sectors such as the hospitality industry, property development, water and wastewater infrastructure as well as road network rehabilitation, among others. In pursuit of our vision as leader in local governance excellence with a vibrant economy by 2024, the City of Bulawayo is calling for expressions of interest in the projects outlined hereunder. Bulawayo has distinguished itself in many respects: being the best run local authority in the country characterised by transparency, integrity, stability, and accountability. Efficient systems that ensure that bureaucracies are eliminated, respect of and adherence to property rights, stakeholders and community collectiveness in the face of challenges. We rally together in unity when the need arises, said BCC.At present, council has vast tracts of land for the development of a modern motel, nature park, game sanctuary, multipurpose resort centre, upmarket hotel, low and high density houses, industrial infrastructure, and commercial centres. The city s network (road) is estimated at 21 000 kilometre, further classified as sealed, gravel and earth. . . The network condition is poor with more than 50 percent of the network requiring immediate heavy rehabilitation. A network in good condition improves accessibility and assists in the social and economic potential of the city. The road rehabilitation include pavement improvement, storm water infrastructure, street lighting, traffic signs, and road line marking and traffic signs upgrading, said the city council.Expression of interests in the above-named and other projects would be open up to the end of February. However, for those projects where there has been no interest shown, the window will remain open. Council is not obliged to accept any proposal. After submission of the expression of interest, the company or individual (potential investors) will be issued with detailed requirements for proposals, it said.Meanwhile, the Government has approved BCC s budget for this year amounting to $105, 4 million with no tariff increases.The local authority s capital budget is pegged at $48,1 million.