Paul ScholesPAUL SCHOLES has hailed Wayne Rooney after the Manchester United striker equalled Sir Bobby Charlton s record of 249 goals to become the club s joint-leading goalscorer of all-time. The former United midfielder also explained why he believes that his old club can challenge Premier League leaders Chelsea and win the title. Rooney opened the scoring in the seventh minute of United s comfortable 4-0 FA Cup third round win over Reading, turning in Juan Mata s cross on the volley with his knee.The 31-year-old club captain went close to scoring again and claiming the record for himself, but failed to convert several chances in the second half.Scholes, a United team-mate of Rooney s for nine years during his playing career, praised the striker s hunger after the game and identified when he would like to see Rooney score his 250th. It s a great achievement, we said that at half-time, Scholes said, while working as an analyst on BT Sport. He s been a sensational player for this football club, won many trophies, and the thing that most impresses me is that he s been here for so long but the hunger, the desire is still there. I thought today he was very good, Scholes added. He looked sharp, he had great movement, his touch was very good, his all-round game was brilliant. Let s hope he breaks that record against Liverpool. Scholes went on to claim that Jose Mourinho s United now have the momentum to challenge for the Premier League title, having won each of their last seven games in all competitions.United are currently 10 points behind league leaders Chelsea, but as the top flight s form team, Scholes believes they are more than capable of bridging the gap, starting with victory against Liverpool at Old Trafford on January 15. If United win (against Liverpool) they could be back in championship race, I really think so, he said, having claimed that Mourinho s side look like the real Manchester United again before kick-off. I don t think Chelsea are that convincing. City are having their own problems, and if United beat Liverpool next week I think they re right back in it. Independent