Lundi TyamaraThe family of gospel sensation Lundi Tyamara has called on South Africa to pray for him. The singer, who started getting sick in November last year, is worryingly critical and his management, family and friends have turned to divine intervention for his recovery.Tyamara was admitted a month ago at Edenvale Hospital for stomach TB and a liver condition.Sowetan has also learnt that Tyamara has been transferred to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) where he is breathing through machines.His manager Anele Hlazo would neither confirm nor deny that Tyamara was in ICU. We appreciate the hard work and care that the nursing and the medical staff at the hospital have been putting in for his recovery. We are also thankful for the outpouring of support from all corners of the South African society and our neighbouring countries. Hlazo urged fans, supporters, followers and well wishers to keep praying for Tyamara as his condition has taken a turn for the worse.Two sources confirmed that Tyamara was moved to the ICU on Monday afternoon after his situation worsened. He is seriously ill. He is breathing through oxygen machines and he is not speaking at all. His liver has stopped functioning. Another source said: We just pray for a miracle. Otherwise, his situation is bad. We won t stop praying. Hlazo was more optimistic, saying: We believe through God s intervention he will overcome these illnesses. We are not giving up on Lundi. We believe that through God s grace he will pull through. He may not be doing well right now, but he is a fighter. The star, who was diagnosed last month, also needed a blood transfusion.His health issues started after a trip to China in November. When he returned he didn t receive medical attention because the family believed it was the Asian climate and diet that affected him negatively. We got concerned in early December when he had shortness of breath and we rushed him to the doctor. He was subsequently hospitalised, said Hlazo in an earlier statement.Tyamara is one of the country s most celebrated gospel singers. His hit single Mphefumlo Wam turned him into a household name. He remains one of the most sought-after names as a live performer.-bambalelep@sowetan.co.za