Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Limited THIS is going to be a great year indeed. A year before the elections is to me a great year. We have known elections come and go so this obsession on elections is so warped. We know how elections or electioneering is done because we have seen it over the years and probably we are politicians ourselves and nothing changes after the so called elections we go back to our normal economic ways.Should a process that takes a week to conclude freeze our business hustle? If that was the case then economies worldwide will have collapsed.If it was in poetry I will be considered a romantic, probably an economical romantic Romeo in this case. I am so optimistic and very positive on the year ahead relatively more so against 2018.Tourism History has shown that foreign visitors increase prior to the election year. This sector will enjoy a young boom this period, so maximise don t be apologetic about it. It s your turn to earn enough revenues as the better part of next year there will be a lull in business. News travel very slowly, for now leverage on the prevailing good news about maximum tranquility in the country. Milk it because when falsehoods perceptions kick in it curtails visitors both local and foreign until it is rectified accordingly.Agriculture Good rains so far. We anticipate a solid harvest to the wise farmer both commercial and subsistence. All things being equal there are no anticipated disturbances on the farming arena. Just be a great farmer this season. We haven t had great rains like this for the past two decades. So why worry, mourn and have excuses when blessings like these arise.Despite the usual chaos, tobacco will bring in the revenues that will bring smiles across the board. The command agriculture and free inputs initiatives are a plus to beneficiaries. Let farmers take advantage and not for granted as in the New Year. This privilege might not be extended to our farmers. The dairy industry has picked up momentum.Mining On the global market prices are going up and the miner is salivating in anticipation of upward trajectory. Take a position if you are in mining already.Probably mine as much as possible and hold onto your reserves as production in 2018 will naturally slow down. Invest in your infrastructure to go big after the elections. Mark my words after elections it s business un-usual as businesses try to make up for lost time.Fees must Fall We have seen school fees being revised downwards. Our dams are filling up and underground water table is rising. Reversal of data charges gave a fresh impetus to a good year and sanity has prevailed to everyone s joy. We see reduction of some fees coming from Government and some prices as companies streamline, re-tool and increased ease of doing business. Initiatives are better suited this year otherwise, it might take two years to implement due to change of human resources that comes after elections. You have STEM initiatives that, for parents, alleviates fees headache, which is only guaranteed in the current year.Export incentives This bonus of five percent is coming to an end this year as export proceeds reach their threshold. To individual exporters it s another opportunity to earn extra income by exporting more before others. The same goes for remittances you are better advised to send funds earlier before the incentive comes to an end. To existing exporters it s good monies and goes a long way in boosting their profit and loss account.Political economy I expect political actors to concentrate on the economy in an unprecedented manner relatively to 2018. It is the economy that is driving the politics. I am thinking the maturity on the political arena is such that they realise economics is driving their sole existence and is willing to meet economical demands half way.I expect CDF funds to be spent on our communities for their benefit and including individuals that will have undertaken the projects being implemented. I expect election campaigns to start this year and expect freebies and many more. The attention that communities will receive is overwhelming and some businesses will derive revenue from the election mode activities.A lot of infrastructure development and repairs is expected due to a great rain season and that is more work for SMEs as the building and rebuilding exercise continues in 2017.Foreign direct investment I expect more remittances from Zimbabwean Diaspora to cover most home infrastructural expenditure before elections next year. Those abroad normally love to complete their projects a year before the election year. And the taking up of strategic positions ushers in more investments in the economy. That is what uncertainty does, it speeds up project completion as the future is not known. The fear of the unknown has seen businesses consolidate their strongholds to weather any future storms.Strategically position yourself This year make sure you strategically position yourself to snap up any opportunities that might arise. The wait and see attitude will not help you and your concern. Prepare and anticipate risk, mitigate risk take calculated risk and soldier on.The beauty of the unknown is the art of navigation and the rewards are handsome. Never sit and do nothing as opportunities never wait for anybody. While others are slowing down, snake in and increase your market share.By the time ejections are over you are the dominant force and competition can t dislodge you from your perch. If 2017 turns out to be not what you anticipated then lessons derived will be invaluable experience for the coming years.IF YOU LIVE IN BYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY: SOS (SWITCH OFF SWITCHES) IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENTMorris Mpala is the managing director of MoB Capital, a Bulawayo headquartered micro-finance institution with footprint across the country.