Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Ltd $! FUND $! Is an expression of feeling great? Feeling great is different from feeling good. Winners feel great. Pioneers feel great. Innovators feel great.Entrepreneurs feel great and not good. Good isn t great enough.The feel great factor is $!The $! Campaign is about bringing in capital to the people still in school. It s about awareness on how great one can be. It s a campaign that says with a great mind then capital has to be cheap or found.Great ideas always get funding. If it s a winner then funding will be found regardless of the funding requirements.Like what we say at MoB Capital, everyone and everything is obedient to great ideas, no one is immune to a great mind. In addition it s about catching them young and inculcating a business culture in the younger generation. $! Campaign will fund all great projects that come through all learning institutions using the Venture Capital division with MoB Capital Pvt Ltd. This is meant for those extra talented to start business which is viable, able to pay back, sustain it and offer employment opportunities. The respective universities/colleges/training institutions will do the vetting.For any great project MoB Capital will fund the project without security.The campaign is a grooming exercise for the future leaders/entrepreneurs. It is a programme that encourages entrepreneurs as opposed to business men with the hope of changing our business culture for a better tomorrow.The National University of Science and Technology (Nust) in Bulawayo will pioneer the project with five students with great projects at sponsorship of up to $2 500 each.In addition investing clubs will be introduced together with trader s platform. It will be like playing monopoly with real cash. MoB Capital will bring research competitions from industry and commerce so that solutions can be found at the Techno Park labs. It will offer incubation and all services will be offered less than one roof within MoB Capital offices.Other universities will benefit up to $1 500 per best great project proposal per institution. Polytechnics, agricultural, vocational training, teachers, nurses, school of mines and apprentice and so forth will receive up to $1 000. High schools/secondary schools greatest project proposal per school, student get full recognition while a trophy will be introduced in the second year.As for primary school, the best student to exhibit commercial tendencies or entrepreneurial skill will get full recognition. A trophy will be introduced in the second year.Concerning kindergarten, greatly gifted students in commercial/entrepreneurial inclinations will get full recognition while a trophy will be introduced in the second year. All winners and recipients of funds will be recorded on the website/page and will be used for MoB Capital s promotional activities.Youth Business Proposal Pitching CompetitionYouths are required to pitch their business proposals for possible funding to would be funders. Ten finalists will stand a chance to get funding from MoB Capital on their projects.Presentation will be to their respective local captains of industry.This will be done per city per town or district to cultivate the idea of selling oneself to would-be funders. MoB Capital with strategic partners will make the dream come true.Youth AmbassadorsEach participating institution will have two voluntary ambassadors (one male one female). Commission/incentives will be given for doing MoB Capital initiatives. Each neighborhood in the country will have two voluntary ambassadors preferably male and female. These will automatically become agents for MoB Capital and will earn monetary incentives for doing MoB Capital initiatives while increasing their IQ levels in economics and entrepreneurship. It doesn t get any cooler (better) than this in this century.On all schools (high/secondary/primary/kindergarten) all prefects or sports captains will be ambassadors for MoB Capital Pvt Limited. It s a strategic 15-25 year plan that is meant to change the economical fortunes of individuals, communities and the nation at large. Our hope is that in the end each household will have a MoB Capital financial freedom status. The ambassador will be responsible for increasing the financial well being of each household and community at large. This is a big ask but we do have big hearts and bigger dreams for our communities. Why dream when it s a simple dream.Our thrust is to financially equip each house hold with one financial actor that will be the household s financial freedom agent for prosperity. All this is meant to make entrepreneurship fun, enjoyable and a day to day subject that starts at grassroots.It s a financial revolution, it s developmental it s generational wealth creation and it s a culture of Financial Ubuntu by us for us with us in mind.The above comes with a heavy dose of advisory services because by and large the challenge is the lack of information or lack of knowledge.All the above will be exposed to great advice to be able to make informed strategic decisions from school children to start ups. $! we can build economic hope in our communities.Above all in the 25 years the $! Campaign will run we are bullish we will have identified and nurtured at least five (5) new Dr Strive Masiyiwas and these five will change the economic landscape of our country not to mention the mentality of our communities. Mark our words!!Together let s. Explore. Dream. Discover Financial Freedom.IF YOU LIVE IN BULAWAYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER . IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY: SOS (SWITCH OFF SWITCHES). IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT.