Peter Tumbare PPC 33-Miler winner 2016Ricky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THIS year s edition of the PPC 33-Miler Ultra-Marathon will be held on April 1, with the Bulawayo Athletics Board (Bab) saying the event sponsors will announce registration details soon. The competition, which draws a competitive field made up of seasoned athletes from around the country, is likely to attract a bigger turnout this year. The 2016 event, which drew 590 athletes for the 33-Miler, Half-Marathon and 5KM Fun Run, overwhelmed Bab, which struggled with coordination at pick-up points resulting in the race starting late.Bab were behind schedule and in some instances, athletes arrived at starting points when the race was about to start.Manuel Mpofu, the Bab chairman, said they are working on improving their event management and promised a smoother show this year. The date for the competition is April 1 and athletes as well as fitness lovers should put the date in the diaries. To be honest, last year we were overwhelmed because we failed to provide adequate manpower at the City Hall, which was the pick-up point. We had assigned two officials per bus, but I think going forward we can improve. We will need to have more ushers to welcome the athletes and provide information about the races. This time around we will be ready for the event, said Mpofu.Air Force of Zimbabwe road runner Peter Tumbare is the defending champion of the 33-miler in the men s event, which he ran in three hours 12 minutes and 10 seconds. Monica Kativhu won the women s race in four hours two minutes and 45 seconds. Both athletes went home with $850.Olympian, Wirimai Juwawo, won the men s half-marathon in one hour seven minutes and 23 seconds, while Chiedza Chokore came first in the women s race in one hour 21 minutes and 14 seconds. Organisers of the PPC Matopos 33-Miler Ultra-Marathon last year increased the sponsorship package from $10 000 to $13 000.Mpofu said the sponsors will announce the sponsorship package during their launch.@ZililoR