Walter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent ZANU-PF s Cde Joosbi Omar and Mr Kudakwashe Bhasikiti-Chuma of ZimPF were among four candidates who filed their nomination papers at the Nomination Court in Masvingo yesterday for the April 8 Mwenezi East by-election. The other two candidates are Mr Turner Mhango of FreeZim Congress and Mr Welcome Masuku of the National Consultative Assembly (NCA).The Mwenezi East seat fell vacant following the death of Cde Joshua Moyo in December last year.The by-election follows another in Bikita West last month which was won resoundingly by Zanu PF s Cde Beauty Chabaya.Yesterday, Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (Zec) provincial nomination officer Mr Zirabada Pudurayi said Zec will embark on voter education in all wards in Mwenezi East constituency starting next week. We will from here open for inspection the voters roll. We will be here at the magistrate court the whole day, from 8AM up to 5PM on Monday and those with queries are free to come. We will also have a meeting with candidates and their election officers but we want to emphasise that everyone should make sure she or he registers. This does not matter one voted in 2013 or not, said Mr PudurayiIn an interview after filling his papers, Mr Bhasikiti who was last week expelled from ZimPF by its interim president Dr Joice Mujuru, said he has a legal mandate to use the party name. I derive the mandate to use the name, ZimPF from the founding fathers, Mr Rugare Gumbo and Mr Didymus Mutasa. Dr Mujuru was expelled from the party and she is free to come back as we are a democratic party. Zec has accepted me to file my papers under ZimPF because they know who the real owners are. The founders of the party have since written to Mujuru advising her to stop using our name, said Mr Bhasikiti-Chuma.He was expelled from the party together with Messrs Gumbo, Mutasa, Bhasikiti-Chuma, Munacho Mutezo and Luckson Kandemiri. Ms Margret Dongo and Retired Colonel Claudius Makova were also fired.Shortly after Dr Mujuru announced their sacking, the seven convened their own press conference to reject the expulsions and declare the interim leader fired. @walterbmswazie2&nbsp;