Ellina Mhlanga, Harare Bureau TENNIS Zimbabwe president Martin Lock says they are targeting at least six Futures tournaments as part of their preparations for the Davis Cup scheduled for July. Zimbabwe will this year compete in Africa Zone Group III after they were relegated from the Europe/Africa Zone Group II when they lost to Georgia in the relagation play-offs last year.They were promoted into Group II in 2014 and in 2015 they managed to retain their place in the Group.But it was a different case last year as they found the going tough and will have to fight for promotion back into the Group in Egypt from July 17 to 22.Lock said they are looking at Futures tournaments in Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Egypt. We are looking at two Futures tournaments in Mozambique, beginning of June, another two in Harare middle and end of June. Then we have two weeks of competition in Egypt because Davis Cup is actually being held in Cairo. If they can play six Futures tournaments leading to Davis Cup, that s fantastic preparation, said Lock.The Futures events have become an important part for the Davis Cup team in the recent past years, with the country hosting some of the events at Harare Sports Club.The tournaments have also been a good platform for Zimbabwean players to get exposure and to showcase their talent at home playing with some of the best from different countries.Lock said they have already met with their traditional sponsors, Old Mutual, concerning this year s tournaments. We have already held meetings with Old Mutual, last year. They are our traditional sponsors. We will be looking to them to sponsor us again this year.They have done us proud, we have a strong rapport with them, said Lock.However, the tennis association s immediate task is the Under-18 African Junior Championships starting next week in Tunis, Tunisia.They are running from February 6 to 11.Zimbabwe will be represented by Mehluli Sibanda, who was part of the Davis Cup team last year and Dennis Moses in the boys section.Kimberly Bhunu, Sasha Taruberekera and Danai Chinamo will take part in the girls section.Lock said the players are expected to leave for Tunisia in a few days time and they are optimistic of good results at the championships. Mehluli Sibanda was in the Davis Cup team so its good exposure. He is already in North Africa playing some tournaments and training. We will be looking at him to do well. We have other players based in France and Cape Town. I think when we have a combined initiative of the parents who are working to develop their children and a tennis federation, that s how you start to give them exposure and they can compete, said Lock.&nbsp;