Pattern and Style, Yoliswa DubeWE were at the Zonkizizwe Shopping Centre parking lot when I couldn t help noticing one woman walking towards her car. She was in a well-fitted grey pencil skirt suit with a white shirt and a lime green scarf.I remember admiring the suit and thinking how professional it looked.But I was distracted by her walk.She was in a pair of black stiletto heels but I d be lying if I said she looked graceful in them.She walked with a slouch and appeared as though she was about to curtsy.Actually, she looked like a new born calf trying to find its feet. I was worried she could ve even sprained an ankle.The walk was so clumsy and she looked completely out of her comfort zone.I could ve sworn she was even counting the steps and dying to get to her car so she could give her feet a break.She left me wondering why we even put ourselves through all that.Well, besides the fact that we love heels and they help improve our silhouette they really aren t for everybody and all destinations.I feel the pinch sometimes. I love my high heels, I even have a serious shoe collection but they sometimes kill me.Just the other day, I had such a difficult time swapping my heels for flats because I needed to do some walking around town.I had been in heels all day and my feet were killing me. I could barely make it down the stairs let alone across the road.It just wasn t happening so I had to grudgingly make the switch.Flats can really throw you over and mess up an otherwise hot outfit.And it s on days like this that you bump into so many people that need to see you at your best.When this happens, you even feel compelled to explain to them that you were in heels and were looking smashing hot but had to wear flats for practicality purposes.It takes a lot of courage and honesty to swap your heels for flat shoes.Unless you re going to be sitting most of the time, it would be in your best interest to always have a pair of flats on stand-by.If you use public transport to work or anywhere else, there s absolutely no reason why you should walk all the way to the bus stop in heels.Who are you trying to impress? You re killing your shoes and your feet.Wear your flats and walk to the bus stop at ease you can always wear your heels when the situation permits.And don t just wear any pair in rainbow colours because they were not the main shoe and you were going to change them anyway. We don t know that for sure. Make an effort to wear a pair that would still complement your outfit well.Black and beige are always the best picks they work with pretty much anything. If you don t have to walk to the bus, maybe your job requires a lot of leg work.Go for a shorter pair of heels if flats are not an option for you. These are manageable and if the shoe is comfortable enough, you could even run a marathon in them.I find driving in heels quite uncomfortable. I always think, what if the heel somehow gets stuck between the pedals . I would just rather put on flats and trade them for a sexy number when I ve arrived at my destination safely.You lose absolutely nothing by wearing flats and looking good in them instead of continuing with heels that do nothing for your image and your schedule. They actually slow you down when your feet can t wear them anymore.My mother is always warning me about how arthritis could become a real problem because of my high-heel wearing. I m not sure of the long term effects of high heels on the body and I can t say whether or not they would actually cause arthritis in the long haul but I do know heels could mess up your feet and ankles if you abuse them.Understanding where you re going and what you re doing in your heels is important. The good thing is your feet will always report the state of affairs. If they can no longer take it anymore, girl, you ll know!You can actually feel the pressure on the big toe mound, the outer arch of the foot and the ankle. Just don t cheat your feet; when they ve had enough, let them rest. And when you get home after a nasty day, soak your feet in warm to hot water it s therapeutic.Until next week, flaunt your pattern and style and don t forget to catch up with me on Twitter handle @Yolisswa, visit my blog, www.stayera247.blogspot.com or like my Facebook page Pattern &amp; Style.