President MugabeNduduzo Tshuma, Political Editor PRESIDENT Mugabe turns 93 today with the ruling Zanu-PF party describing him as a visionary leader, liberator and champion of education and empowerment. Zanu-PF Secretary for Administration Dr Ignatius Chombo said President Mugabe is among a rare breed of politicians and the party views him as a gift from God. We as a party are very privileged to have President Mugabe as our President and First Secretary, he said. We see his long life as a gift from God. God has been kind to us as a country and also kind to him that he has given him a long life, wisdom, integrity and strong principles. He does not change his views simply because he wants to please every Jack and Jill, no, he has dedicated his entire life to the service of this country. Such men are rare and we are very proud that such an icon is the President and First Secretary of Zanu-PF and we really wish him a happy birthday and hope that God will continue to bless him and that he continues to be with us. Zanu-PF Secretary for Youth Affairs, Cde Kudzai Chipanga, said they regard President Mugabe s birthday as an event of paramount importance. We as young people regard these celebrations of the President s birthday as of paramount importance given the fact that we view our President as a role model for young Zimbabweans and Africans at large, said Cde Chipanga.The Zanu-PF Women s League paid tribute to President Mugabe for his people-driven policies aimed at uplifting and empowering the majority black people.The organ s Secretary for Information and Publicity, Cde Thokozile Mathuthu, said they were fully behind President Mugabe s candidature in the 2018 elections. As the Women s League national executive and Zimbabwean women in general, we say congratulations President Mugabe for turning 93 and we wish God could continue blessing you with good health and many more years, she said.Cde Mathuthu, who is also the deputy Minister of Information, Media and Broadcasting Services, said the organ was fully behind President Mugabe whom she described as a wise leader with a deep understanding of issues. We will be fully behind him again in 2018 when he stands as our presidential candidate in the national elections, she said. We would also like to pay tribute to the late Bona Mugabe who gave birth to this brilliant and highly intelligent child. We are certain that she is smiling from heaven at the strides made by her son to uplift his people. This year s celebrations will be held at the Rhodes Preparatory School (Reps) in Matobo district, Matabeleland South on Saturday under the theme, Honouring our icon, unlocking value in youth. &nbsp;