&nbsp;Crystabel Chikayi, Features Reporter Wholesale Centre Liquor Hub, a retail enterprise owned by Bulawayo business mogul, Mr Raj Modi, this month celebrates its second anniversary. The efficacious enterprise opened its doors to the public on February 14, 2015 after it was officially opened by Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa.Liquor Hub, which is located at No 58 Fife Street, between 4th and 5th Avenues has a staff complement of over 100 workers.The enterprise is rapidly growing with contract workers also engaged to improve service delivery.A wide range of products are offered at the wholesale centre.Liquor Hub purchasing manager Mr Stanford Mazura thanked the wholesale s customers in Bulawayo and surrounding areas for their continued support.He said the wholesale started as a beverage outlet in 2015 but has grown tremendously over the years into a sought after one stop shop due to its affordable prices. We chose to open our doors to our valued customers during the month of love (February), when people celebrate with their loved ones. We offered a lot of new products relevant to the celebrations. As a business entity, we re happy because it has paid back so well and our name is now known in and outside Bulawayo. Our customers are from all over, said Mr Mazura. When we started, our goal was to be the best liquor outlet and frankly we ve achieved more than that. We ve broadened our market from being just a beverage outlet to being a fully-fledged wholesale, where people can get what they want at competitive prices. Mr Mazura said despite the unfriendly economic environment prevailing in the country, Liquor Hub has remained focused on maintaining continued growth. The country s economic situation has brought about various challenges for us as 90 percent of our beverages are imports but we re managing to soldier on.We always strive to provide the best services despite the challenging business environment. For our business to grow and continue thriving, we ve always tried to remain focused and positive. There re a lot of challenges we face but we remain confident that things will improve and allow business to expand, said Mr Mazura.He said Liquor Hub is a loyal customer of local liquor producers such as Delta Beverages and African Distillers (Afdis) Limited who supply them with the locally manufactured beverages they sell adding the establishment had started engaging in water purification and liquor bottling of their own water and liquor.Mr Mazura said they were also expanding the product range to include more food stuffs.Meanwhile, plans to establish a new branch in Cowdray Park suburb are at an advanced stage. Our goods are sold at wholesale prices and since we opened room for food stuffs and other commodities, our establishment has become a one stop shop.We ve been the best one stop shop in the region supplying all goods on demand. We re expecting to record higher sales this year, mindful of the economic challenges but we would want to stay on top of the game to meet demand and the challenge of competition, said Mr Mazura. Plans to construct a 9 000 square metres shopping mall in Cowdray Park and increase production on beverages, alcohol and water are at an advanced stage. The building material is already there but the rains have put us on standby. We also look forward to opening more bottle stores in town. Mr Mazura said Liquor Hub would continue to engage in corporate social responsibility programmes. This year, we wish to work with different communities and do more in terms of giving back to the community. I want to thank members of the public for supporting us since we opened our doors, we surely have more to give this year, said Mr Mazura.Liquor Hub is involved in various corporate social responsibility programmes and supports sport through holding the annual Liquor Hub 10km and 5km Charity Walk and sponsoring the Southern Region Soccer Stars Awards.The establishment is also assisting various charities that include Mustard Seed Children s Home, St Francis Children s Hospital and Ethandweni Children s Home in Kezi .Last year, Liquor Hub held a Christmas promotion which saw one lucky customer driving away in a brand new Renault Kwid while other lucky shoppers walked away with household appliances and other consolation prizes. @cchikayi.&nbsp;