George Maponga in Masvingo THE Zanu-PF Politburo will make a determination on the inconclusive election for a new ruling party provincial chairperson in Masvingo, after only 64 percent of the districts took part in voting on Thursday. Some districts failed to vote because of rains which made them totally inaccessible.Former ruling party Masvingo chair Cde Ezra Chadzamira had taken a commanding lead, with provisional results released yesterday morning showing him amassing 12 393 votes against his rival Retired Colonel Mutero Masanganise, who managed 4 888.The provisional results were from the 263 party districts that voted out of 408 that were supposed to vote.Apart from the effects of the rains, there were also some logistical challenges such as shortage of ballot papers.The election was supposed to start at 8am ending at 1pm, but by 3pm voting had not started in some areas owing to delays in moving voting material and polling officers.In districts such as Mwenezi which has 60 party districts voting completely failed to take place, while in Chiredzi where there are 62 party districts, only 48 voted, as some areas were inaccessible because of the flooded Runde River.Interim Zanu-PF Masvingo provincial chairperson Cde Jorum Gumbo, who was conducting the polls, said he would present the provisional poll outcome to the Politburo for direction.At total of 17 422 people participated in the elections that had 141 spoilt papers. I will present a report to the Politburo and a decision will be made on the way forward, said Cde Gumbo. I will give my recommendation as the returning officer, but I cannot disclose it now because it will be like telling the Politburo what to do. Cde Gumbo said he remained the interim Zanu-PF chair for Masvingo province until a final determination on the polls was made.He accused some ruling party officials of trying to influence the poll outcome. I received reports from people on the ground about some officials who were clearly biased in the way they conducted the polls, said Cde Gumbo. Some of these officials stopped voting in some party districts in Chivi after noting that the results were not in favour of their preferred candidate. I want to make it clear that Zanu-PF does not belong to anyone and there is no room for favouritism. I will not tolerate that because I was given a job to do by the Politburo and I want to deliver. Zanu-PF is my party, if anyone wants to practice favouritism they must do it at their own homes. Cde Gumbo s remarks followed reports that some polling officers disappeared with ballot boxes in Chivi after people had voted.Cde Chadzamira said guidance from the Politburo would be important. I want to thank President Mugabe for bringing stability to Zanu-PF in Masvingo province by giving party members an opportunity to choose a leader of their choice, he said.Col Masanganise (Rtd) said he would not comment until the polls were conclusive.The Politburo ordered fresh elections in Masvingo after most posts became vacant owing to a number of reasons.There was also confusion in the party in the province after Cde Chadzamira was reinstated as chair, taking over from Cde Amasa Nhenjana, who was in an acting capacity.