Claudio RanieriLeicester City have issued Claudio Ranieri a vote of confidence, saying he has the club s unwavering support following speculation surrounding his future. Despite guiding Leicester to the Premier League title last season, reports have emerged recently that Ranieri has lost the dressing room at the King Power Stadium, with the club currently sitting 16th in the table and just one point clear of the relegation zone.Ranieri said on Monday that he does not feel his job is in jeopardy, and the club have now insisted that they remain united behind [their] manager. A Leicester statement read: In light of recent speculation, Leicester City Football Club would like to make absolutely clear its unwavering support for its first team manager, Claudio Ranieri. While there is a collective appreciation from everyone at the club that recent form needs to improve, the unprecedented success achieved in recent seasons has been based firmly on stability, togetherness and determination to overcome even the greatest of challenges. The entire club is and will remain united behind its manager and behind its players, collectively and firmly focused on the challenges ahead. Leicester s 3-0 defeat to Manchester United on Sunday was the latest in a poor run of results. They are the first Premier League team to fail to score in the first five matches of a calendar year and the only side in the top four English tiers to have failed to score in the league in 2017.The club s title win last season came just one year on from a successful battle against relegation and with odds of 5 000/1 ahead of the campaign.Speaking shortly after the club statement was released at a news conference ahead of Leicester s FA Cup fourth-round replay against Derby County, Ranieri said he was confident he and his players could turn things around. This club, these players came from the bottom to win a title, he said. They made all the steps and for this reason I am very confident. These players are warriors. They have already lived this situation. They know the problem, they know the enemy. Never before in my career did I win a title. I can say thank you all my life to the players. Looking ahead to Wednesday s match, Ranieri added: [Derby] are a big team who move the ball very well. They lost against Newcastle but it will be a tough, tough match. I have to protect some players who need to recover and rest. Also, I want to give the opportunity to the other players. ESPNFC.