Gianni InfantinoEddie Chikamhi and Paul Mundandi, Harare Bureau FIFA president Gianni Infantino headlined a cast of high profile guests on a colourful night at the Harare International Conference Centre where he joined hands with continental football leadership and invited guests in celebrating Philip Chiyangwa s birthday and Cosafa victory. Infantino arrived at the Harare International Airport around 8:30pm and was welcomed by officials from Zifa and the Ministry of Sports and Recreation.The Italian lawyer was among the rich list of football dignitaries which also included a delegation from the world football body, football association presidents from across the continent, high profile businesspeople and locals from all walks of life.Infantino arrived abode a private jet and was quickly whisked to the HICC where he was given a red carpet treatment as he joined in the fun with the other invited guests in a five-star bash hosted in honour of Chiyangwa.The Fifa boss is expected to pay a courtesy call to President Mugabe today and will also visit Zifa s development programmes that include the Zifa Village which was built under the Fifa Goal Project.The historic visit to Zimbabwe by the Fifa boss has been highly welcomed because of its significance towards football development and in terms of sports tourism.The Italian lawyer, who ascended to the helm of world football in February last year, appears to be gaining popularity with Africa following the decision to increase the participating teams at the World Cup from 32 teams to 48 starting from 2026.South Africa Football Association president Danny Jordan was also among the guests. Jordan hailed the gesture by the Cosafa president to bring together football leaders from across the continent on a different platform outside the stadium.Jordan, who was among the high profile guests at a colourful bash to celebrate Chiyangwa s birthday and his ascendancy to the Cosafa throne, told reporters on his arrival at the Harare International Airport that what Chiyangwa did has been lacking on the continent for many years.He said unity is key for development and believes that African football leaders would only advance development and cooperation through regular gatherings whether formal or informal. It s another gathering of football officials. Many are here and others are coming. These things are rare on the continent. The only time that we are around in the stadium is when we compete but while we compete we must also cooperate. So cooperation and competition are two sides of what is required to see progress in football. And these gatherings give us the opportunity to discuss, to exchange ideas, to look at the future of African football and the direction of African football, said Jordan.The Safa president said the get-together was especially important considering they are coming from another huge gathering in South Africa where all the 54 countries had been invited for an unprecedented summit with Fifa president Gianni Infantino.The executive summit discussed general issues in the game and Infantino took time to explain Fifa s plans to expand the World Cup and changes to its development structures.The Italian football boss said Fifa wants to increase the number of African teams playing in the World Cup after expanding the competition from 32 to 46 participants from 2026. Africa currently has five slots and want the number doubled. Jordan said they discussed issues in the spirit of development and was hopeful of the future.He also hailed the Africa Cup off nations and made a special mention of Zimbabwe who he said had one of the best attacks at the tournament. I think it was good. For the first time we gathered many of the African countries together with some European countries. Germany was there, Slovenia was there and to focus on the path forward in terms of where our global football is going. One of the focus areas was around the discussion of the next World Cup for 2018. Everyone endorsed it, and as well to develop on Fifa s forward, development programme and the success the African nations have achieved. We come from the Africa Cup of Nations, of course. Zimbabwe came with a good team but they must tighten their defence. Their attack was probably one of the best in that tournament, said Jordan.