Jah PrayzahShowbiz Correspondent Jah Prayzah, ProBeats and Bulawayo s songbird Nkwali are some of the artistes who have been selected to perform at the National Art Merit Awards (Nama) taking place in Harare tomorrow. The awards ceremony, now in its 16th edition will once again be held at the 7 Arts Theatre in Avondale. It will be broadcast live on ZBCtv from 7:30PM.Organisers, the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ) said all was set for the day where artistes from various disciplines will be honoured in the 35 categories.The ceremony being held under the theme: Partner the Arts will be hosted by multi-award winning comedian Carl Joshua Ncube.Jah Prayzah who has been nominated in two categories will be joined on stage by renowned visual artists Voti Thebe, Air Force percussion artistes, Shabach Entertainment, M &amp; M Dance Factory, ProBeats and Chipawo. Various artistes, arts products and institutions who were nominated will walk away with accolades on the awards night from the total number of 95 nominees, NACZ spokesperson, Catherine Mthombeni said in a statement. A total of 35 winners will walk away with the gold plated Nama trophies. Meanwhile, voting for the Nama People s Choice award closes on Saturday, with people being urged to vote for their favourite artistes or arts organisations. The People s Choice award is given to an individual/institution that would ve received the most votes from the public. The public is at liberty to select an artiste of their choice from the Nama categories of music, literary arts, dance, visual arts, film and television, theatre and spoken word, said Mthombeni. To vote for one s favourite artiste for the People s Choice Award, one has to send the artiste s name to WhatsApp number 0713060504. The syntax is #NAMA -ARTIST NAME. The artiste with the most votes will be the winner. Among the Nama 16 nominees are Bulawayo theatre productions Untikolotshi and Warrior; Arthur Evans show; Ezimnyama dance group; comedians Ntando Van Moyo and Q Dube; actors Donna N and Ishamel Muvingi and artistes Winky D, Fungisai, Ammara Brown, Thamsanqa Moyo and Takura.&nbsp;