Dr Nkosana MoyoKiyapili Sibanda, Business Reporter STATUTORY Instrument 64 of 2016 is a noble policy that needs to be supported by a vibrant domestic industry, former Industry and Commerce Minister Dr Nkosana Moyo said. In June last year Government gazetted SI 64/2016, which removed several goods from the Open General Import Licence (OGIL) as part of measures to protect local firms from the influx of cheap imports.The regulation restricts importation of a range of products that are available locally such as basic food stuffs, pharmaceutical products, hardware and building materials.Addressing Bulawayo residents who included industrialists on Wednesday night, Dr Moyo, who is founder and chairperson of the Mandela Institute for Development Studies, said the success of SI 64/2016 was hinged on a robust industry revival programme. For the instrument (SI 64) to be successful it must be supported by a well functioning local industry. The industry must be able to supply all the products put under this instrument in order for it to bear fruits, said Dr Moyo. He said the local industry must have the capacity to produce enough so that people do not rely on imports, which threaten the viability of local producers. People rely on imports because the local industry will be failing to meet demand, said Dr Moyo.He stressed the need for African economies to work together and come up with supporting policy measures that promote regional trade and free movement of people across borders. Africans must get closer and achieve economic integration. The issue of visas is onother thing that hinders the growth of African economies. There must be free movement of people across African borders. What s wrong if our Nigerian brothers come here (Zimbabwe) and marry our sisters? This will bring together countries and enhance economic growth. Back then economies were built among marriages as this brings together people of different cultures and background, Dr Moyo said.He said Africa must promote tourism within the member states and boost agricultural production to support their economies. South Africa, our closest neighbour, lured some Chinese to build them their wagons in order to boost their railway network. I, however, think they should have also worked with Zimbabwe in this project and this would have benefited not only the two countries but Sadc region in terms of tourism and economic growth. Bulawayo could be the nerve centre of the railway network that could serve most Sadc countries, said Dr Moyo.He also said youths should be innovative and develop new skills. Youths should be given more space to explore new heights. Parents should give them leeway in order for them to help develop our economies. New technologies have helped to better our economy and this is because of the innovation by the youths, said Dr Moyo.He also said that for African economies to prosper the electorate must elect leaders who are capable to deal with corruption and run the Government and local authorities efficiently. Corruption has destroyed African economies and people must elect people who are capable to run the affairs of a country and deliver on promises, said Dr Moyo.@Kiyaz_Cool