Walter Mswazie recently in Chivi WHEN a draft plan for the 1,8 billion cubic metre-Tokwe-Mukosi Dam project was tabled in the 1960s, many people in Masvingo s Chivi district thought the project was going to be completed in a few years time. The much awaited dam project was completed on December 9, 2016 by the Italian contractor, Salim Impregillo, much to the delight of the drought prone province. The dam is now 26 percent full.The Government has already revealed plans to set up a 15MW hydro-power plant at the dam at a cost of $20 million.Work is already underway to identify land suitable for agriculture, which can benefit dozens of families. The completion of the dam is expected to address food shortages in the district as families will be able to cultivate crops throughout the year under irrigation. The dam when full has a capacity to irrigate about 26 000 hectares of land.Delighted villagers and the business community in Chivi are confident that the dam will spur development in the district and impact positively on the people s livelihoods.Built at a cost of $255 million, the dam project is set to open a plethora of business opportunities in the tourism and hospitality industry, agriculture, retail and transport among others.Agricultural, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development Deputy Minister responsible for crops production Cde Davis Marapira said Government is seized with plans to clear about 20 hectares for irrigation, which will first benefit families who were displaced by the dam in 2014.In March 2014 about 3 000 families were evacuated, some with helicopters and taken to Chingwizi area in Mwenezi. The families are, however, scheduled for yet another relocation to pave way for an $80 million ethanol plant by a private investor. Resources permitting Government will soon clear about 20 hectares of land for irrigation purposes to be allocated to those affected by the floods first.These families should be the first to benefit as part of compensating the loss they suffered when they were displaced. We look forward to much activity as we want to utilise the water in the dam. We can t afford to leave the water idle, said Cde Marapira.Chivi and Mwenezi Senator Josiah Hungwe said plans were underway to come up with a development master plan that spells out economic opportunities availed by the completion of the dam. He said investors who wished to explore opportunities at the dam were free to approach Government with their initiatives. We will come up with a master plan that spells out investment opportunities brought about by the completion of the dam. Apart from agriculture, we want investment in tourism and hospitality industry, transport, fisheries and retail among others. We are appealing to investors to come up with their initiatives on what they would want to venture into. Masvingo will never be the same following the completion of this big dam, said Senator Hungwe who is also Minister of State for Psychomotor Activities.Zaka business woman and Masvingo Chamber of Small to Medium Enterprises secretary Mrs Sarah Munemo hailed the Government for providing resources for the construction of the dam which she said provided abundant opportunities for investment.She urged the Government to ensure gender balance when allocating land for irrigation saying at times women were marginalised when it comes to allocation of such vital resources. This is a dream come true for many. When plans to construct this multi-million dam were mooted, most of us were not yet born but here we are, it is complete. We look forward to benefit from the dam as women in business and Government should ensure that women are not left out, she said. There are a number of SMEs led by women here and they also want to benefit, be it in tourism or fisheries. Chivi Rural District Council chairman Dr Killer Zivhu welcomed the completion of the dam saying it will help fight poverty through enhancing creation of business opportunities. He said the first priority should be given to local people especially those who were affected by the floods. We are happy that the dam has been completed. A number of investment opportunities have been opened up. However, we expect local people especially those who were displaced to be given first priority, said Dr Zivhu. Locals should be the first to be allocated land for irrigation so that they improve food security,&#8221; he said.Dr Zivhu is also Zimbabwe Rural District Council president.He said Chivi Rural District was committed to coming up with a development master plan that will guide development related to opportunities availed by the completion of the dam. We have been tasked together with Masvingo Rural Council to come up with a master plan. We are ready to do that once the responsible ministry engages us. Tokwe-Mukosi covers Masvingo and Chivi districts hence the need for the two districts to work together, said Dr Zivhu.Mr Togarepi Zizhou, a villager from Gwezu under Chief Nemaushe in Chivi said the completion of Tokwe-Mukosi will address food security challenges in the district and beyond. We look forward to seeing Chivi and Masvingo province at large being turned into a greenbelt given the agricultural production opportunities at our disposal. We have people from Runesu, Manyumbudzi, Tagwirei and Gwarinda villages who were moved to Chingwizi and we hope they will benefit from the dam, he said.Businesswoman Mrs Juliet Hungoedza who runs a motel at Hungoedza Business Centre in Chivi said she has already embarked on a project to expand rooms as she expected an increase in tourists visiting the area. @walterbmswazie2&nbsp;