Elvis The Bulawayo Bomber MoyoRicky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE heavyweight cage fighter Elvis Moyo has promised to turn South African Mike Vermeulen into his punch bag when the two square off at Carnival City in Johannesburg on March 4. Moyo, whose stage name is Bulawayo Bomber, says he is ready to make up for his Extreme Fighting Championship (EFC) Africa title fight loss to Andrew van Zyl in October last year and will use the bout against Vermeulen to get on with his plan of another title shot. I ve reloaded and ready to smash Mike (Vermeulen) and move on. I ve watched some of his fights and I ve noted that he is a rusher and throws random punches. I will use his body as my punching bag and I intend to stop him within seven minutes. If he stands up for my punches, then he will be damaged inside 15 minutes, said Moyo.The Bulawayo Bomber said he has been working on his footwork and ground game to counter Vermeulen s random punches. From my last fight I learnt that fitness and footwork are my best weapons. I ve to hit and move. A single step to either side, he (Vermeulen) will be off target and that will be an opportunity for me to hit him with my bomber bang. Remember, I ve got power and I can hit him through as he comes, Moyo said.Moyo will have to be at his best to overcome Vermeulen who has four career wins out of five. The South African will also be seeking to stretch his unbeaten run to five fights.What makes Vermeulen a tricky opponent is that he won his last fight in October against Poland s Tomasz Kredka Kowalkowski, who knocked out Moyo in just 37 seconds in 2015.Moyo has seven career wins from 11 cage fights.The Bulawayo Bomber recorded victories over Sors Guru Grobbelaar in his debut cage fight in March 2014, Wilhelm Tiny Strauss in August and Didier-Kilola in November of the same year.He also beat Lance Cerenio in February 2015 and also handed Vandam Mbuyi a defeat in December 2015.He exploded on Ricky Misholas last year in June and in August he beat Japanese mixed martial arts veteran Kiyoshi Tamura in the fourth round in a fight staged in Tokyo.The Bulawayo Bomber lost twice in 2014 to Brendon Groenwald and Andrew van Zyl. His third loss was in June 2015 when he was knocked out by Kowalkowski. He lost to Van Zyl again last year in a title fight.@ZililoR