Cde Tapiwa MatangaidzePamela Shumba, Senior Reporter THE Ministry of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare has so far distributed 490 000 tonnes of maize and 19 000 metric tonnes of rice to the country s 10 provinces under the food mitigation programme. Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Deputy Minister Tapiwa Matangaidze told Parliament on Wednesday that assessment of vulnerable groups was continuing as Government fights hunger in the country. We have so far distributed 490 000 metric tonnes of maize grain as at January 18, 2017. We also received 19 000 tonnes of rice from China. Of that 19 000 metric tonnes, 10 000 tonnes has already been distributed to the 10 provinces in the country at a rate of 1 000 per province. The outstanding 750 tonnes per province will be distributed as and when provinces have completed distributing the first tranche, said the Deputy Minister.He said the food distribution programme started with 200 000 households but the number has since gone up to 809 000 households that are accessing food aid. The exercise is continuous, should there be food insecure families that are identified at any point, members are free to bring this up with the social welfare officers and the additional members will be assisted, Cde Matangaidze said. Resources permitting, our intention is to extend the school feeding programme from primary to secondary schools. The Deputy Minister said the food mitigation programme had nothing to do with politics. We do not condone distribution of food on partisan lines. President Mugabe has said no one should die of hunger and that is the position that stands. We look at all vulnerable people regardless of their position in society. So anyone who is vulnerable regardless of whether they work at a mine or a farm should benefit from this programme, said Deputy Minister Matangaidze.The food mitigation programme was traditionally meant for the eight rural provinces in the country but was last year extended to Harare and Bulawayo provinces as some people needed food aid in the two cities. @pamelashumba1