Minister Joram GumboWalter Mswazie, Masvingo Correspondent ALL is set for Masvingo Zanu-PF provincial elections slated for today. The Politburo dissolved the provincial executive last week, paving way for fresh elections in the wake of a leadership crisis emanating from the retaining ofCde Ezra Chadzamira as chairman after he had been suspended.Cde Chadzamira was suspended last year only to be absolved by the politburo in the run up to national people s congress in December. His deputy CdeAmasa Nhenjana filled his position in an acting capacity but the provincial executive committee reinstated Cde Chadzamira, leading to disgruntlement from other members.Cde Joram Gumbo has since been appointed the province s interim chairman pending the elections of a substantive executive chairman. For the chairmanship Cde Ezra Chadzamira is locking horns with Retired Colonel Mutero Masanganise.The elections will be conducted in all party districts with polling stations strategically situated to save members from walking long distances.In a statement the party s national political commissar, Cde Saviour Kasukuwere, said the provincial elections will go ahead today as planned at 8AM. Zanu-PF National Secretary for Commissariat would like to advise Masvingo Province and Party District officials that elections to choose the provincial chairman will go ahead tomorrow, Thursday the 23rd of February in all party political districts starting from 8AM to 1PM, said Cde Kasukuwere.He said the election involves voting for the chairman of the province main wing only. No elections will be held for any other positions. The incumbent chairlady of the women s league Cde Makonese and her executive will continue and similarly Cde Nobert Ndaarombe and the youth executive will remain in office. Please be guided accordingly, he said.Dr Gumbo said members from party district structures plus those from the dissolved provincial executive will be eligible to cast their ballots. Everything is on course for the provincial elections for the main wing s chairperson post in Masvingo. Voting will take place in all 242 wards in the province. We also urge our members to vote peacefully and in unity, said Dr Gumbo.He said a team of 200 Zanu-PF leaders drawn from seven provinces was yesterday dispatched to conduct the elections. We have dispatched a team comprising provincial chairpersons from seven provinces excluding those from Matabeleland North and South to oversee the election processes in all the seven districts. Matabeleland North was excluded due to floods in Tsholotsho and Matabeleland South due to the fact that it is hosting the 21st February Movement to be held on Saturday, said Dr Gumbo.He said the ballots from party districts will be counted at ward centres.Dr Gumbo urged eligible voters to carry particulars that include national identity cards, passport, drivers licence or Zanu-PF electronic cards. @walterbmswazie3