Kiyapili Sibanda, Business Reporter CHURCH leaders in Bulawayo have pledged to play a leading role in turning around the economy and urged their members to embark on business projects to create employment. Religious leaders from different denominations held a meeting at Queens Sports Club last Thursday under the Bulawayo Christian Community banner where they discussed the state of the economy in the country and the need to restore Bulawayo s industrial hub status.The one-day meeting, which ran under the theme Divine Empowerment , saw participants sharing ideas on how to unlock business opportunities. One of the event organisers, Apostle Anglistone Sibanda said the meeting was meant to motivate the Christian community to venture into business. We want Christians to be able to see the silver lining behind the dark cloud. They must not sit on their backs waiting for manna to fall from heaven, said Sibanda. Most people in Zimbabweans are Christians and they should be the ones who should be in the forefront in turning around the economic fortunes of the country. Christians must engage with each other and avoid looking down on each other. They must work with their hands with the blessing of the Lord. A partner organisation, Dominion Advisory Services has pledged to help Christian entrepreneurs who are into agriculture with legal advice on how to register and become successful businesses.Another organisation, Unapower, has pledged to promote green energy projects such as use of biogas and production of organic fertilisers. We re sharing the knowledge and experience with other Christians. We re learning from the Jewish culture of doing business, said Sibanda.The participants applauded the Government for initiating the command agriculture scheme, which they said will assist the country to achieve food security.They stressed the need for people in Matabeleland region to grab the available economic opportunities to empower themselves and share knowledge on business development. People should work together rather than criticising each other, said one of the participants.The seminar was attended by Christians in the farming, financial services and small to medium enterprise sectors as well as individual pastors.@Kiyaz_Cool