Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent A MAN from Mangwe allegedly brutally attacked his 74-year-old maternal grandfather and 30-year-old aunt with an axe and his two victims are battling for their lives at the United Bulawayo Hospitals Intensive Care Unit. Matabeleland South provincial police spokesperson Inspector Philani Ndebele said police had launched a manhunt for Jonathan Ncube (23) from Mhlotshana Village in Empandeni Ward in connection with the incident. He said Ncube allegedly attacked his grandfather and aunt on Saturday at around 1PM, but reasons for the attack were not clear.Insp Ndebele said Ncube s victims &#8211; Ms Sibukile Mpofu and Mr Leonard Ncube were admitted to the United Bulawayo Hospitals Intensive Care Unit where they were reported to be in a critical state. A man from Mangwe allegedly attacked his grandfather and aunt with an axe and he fled from the homestead. He is suspected to have had a misunderstanding with his two relatives although we are yet to establish the cause of the altercation. We have launched a manhunt for him and we appeal to members of the public who might have information on his whereabouts to alert the police, he said.Insp Ndebele said Ncube would be charged with two counts of attempted murder.Headman Zibuyeni of Mhlotshana Village in Empandeni Ward said Ncube allegedly first struck his grandfather with an axe on the head, before turning on his aunt whom he struck on the left side of the head with the same axe. On Saturday at around 1PM, Ms Mpofu went to her neighbour s homestead, Mr Lungisani Ndebele and informed him that Ncube and his grandfather were quarrelling. Ms Mpofu pleaded with Mr Ndebele to accompany her back to the homestead to resolve the dispute. When they returned, Ms Mpofu and Mr Ndebele found the old man lying unconscious on the kitchen floor in a pool of blood but Jonathan was nowhere to be seen, he said.Headman Zibuyeni said Mr Ndebele left Ms Mpofu at the homestead and went to inform other villagers on what had transpired.He said Mr Ndebele heard Ms Mpofu screaming when he was a few metres away from the homestead and rushed back only to find her lying unconscious on the ground.Headman Zibuyeni said Mr Ndebele tried to search around the homestead hoping to locate Ncube to no avail.He said Ms Mpofu and Mr Ncube were rushed to hospital. Ms Mpofu and Mr Ncube were badly injured and they couldn t speak. The incident has left villagers shocked and we are still trying to figure out what could have caused the altercation between him, his aunt and grandfather, said Headman Zibuyeni.He said Ncube lived with his grandfather and aunt at the old man s house. @DubeMatutu