Lovemore Zigara in Gweru FORMER Chapungu goalkeeper Brighton Muchambo has died. He was 41. Muchambo passed away at Thornhill Airbase Hospital after a short illness yesterday.At the time of his death, Muchambo was part of the newly appointed Chapungu technical team led by Tendai Chikuni as goalkeepers coach.Chapungu secretary Mkhululi Dube expressed shock at the untimely death of Muchambo. As Chapungu FC, we received the death of Muchambo with shock and sadness as he had a promising coaching career ahead of him. Only last year he completed his Caf C Licence and we appointed him our goalkeepers coach so that we could tap into his newly acquired skills, said Dube. Apart from that, he also had a glittering playing career as a goalkeeper, which blossomed here at Chapungu and we had roped him into the technical staff as our son because he understood the culture of the club. We are poorer without him and the football family has lost a man who had a passion for the game. Muchambo was a football man through and through. On behalf of Chapungu FC, I would like to express our deepest condolences to the Muchambo family on Brighton s passing. May his soul rest in peace, Dube said.He said funeral arrangements would be announced in due course.Muchambo was born on April 27, 1975 and spent the greater part of his football career at Chapungu after first signing for Triangle in 1996.In 1997, he joined the Air Force of Zimbabwe and broke into the Chapungu first team in 1998 as an understudy to Innocent Chogugudza. Muchambo then took over the number one jersey following the retirement of Chogogudza at the turn of the millennium and played alongside the likes of Maxwell Dube, Phillip Marufu, Clement Mugari, Dumisani Mufudze and Tawanda Marimo, among others.Muchambo also played alongside his younger brother Jorum, who is now at Caps United.In 2005, he helped the airmen reach the Madison Trophy final where they lost 0-1 to Dynamos.He retired in 2008 to pursue a coaching career and joined Hardbody in 2010 as goalkeepers coach.He later joined Eastern Region Division One side Setheo United together with Tavaka Gumbo. Following the folding up of Setheo United, Muchambo followed Gumbo to Chegutu Pirates in 2013 before he took over the same role at the now defunct Gweru City.He then retraced his roots to Chapungu up to his untimely death. He is survived by wife Ecoza Daka and two daughters, Leslie and Lindsay.@lavuzigara1