Sukulwenkosi-Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent PERSISTENT rains have disrupted lessons at Tjingababili Primary School in Mangwe District. The deputy headmaster, Mr Chamunorwa Midzi, said the school, which was recently destroyed by a hailstorm, needed $20 000 for repairs.About 350 out of 404 pupils are learning from roofless classrooms and this has forced school authorities to abandon lessons each time it rains.It has been raining almost every day since schools opened for the first term in January this year.Nine schools and several homesteads in Mangwe district were severely damaged by the hailstorm which struck the area twice last year. Other affected schools were Nguwanyana Primary, Silima Primary, Bulu Primary, Mqokolweni Secondary, Tahangana Secondary, St Francis Secondary, Makuzeze Primary and Khahlu Primary School.Tjingababili Primary School was the worst affected as all classroom blocks and teacher s cottages were damaged by hail stones. The asbestos roofing and windows to all classrooms and cottages were destroyed.Computers, a printer, text books, exercise books and electric gadgets were also damaged by the rains.The School s Development Committee treasurer, Mrs Elizabeth Dube, said parents had recently contributed money towards repairing the Grade Seven classroom to ensure that their lessons were not disrupted.She said lessons at the school were now being dictated by rains. Ever since schools opened our children have been unable to learn normally because of persistent rains. On some days the children learn for about two hours before they are forced to knock off by the rains. During the first week when schools opened it was worse because children failed to attend school for three consecutive days as it was raining non-stop. Each time clouds build up teachers dismiss pupils because the school doesn t have shelter to house the children when it s raining, said Mrs Dube.She said after it rained, pupils were expected to mop off water that would have flooded their classrooms floors each morning before their lessons started.Mrs Dube said Grades One to Six were still stranded and the school was in desperate need of roofing material for eight classrooms.She said they had also managed to repair teachers cottages. Villagers have tried to contribute money towards repairing the school but they are struggling and we do need assistance. So far the help we have got has been in the form of clothing and foodstuffs but our greatest need is roofing material. Each day when the children knock off they bundle their classroom furniture into a corner and they cover it with a sail in case it rains overnight, Mrs Dube said.@DubeMatutu