Jeys MarabiniBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent AFTER 24 years in the music industry, afro Jazz musician Jeys Marabini believes it is time for him to impart his vast knowledge to up-and-coming musicians through a self named music academy. Situated at his home in Bulawayo s Nkulumane suburb, Jeys sees the academy expanding into a school that will improve the music industry in the country at a minimal cost to musicians.The award winning musician said he set up the music academy as there was none in any high density area and the ones in the city centre are costly. I ve noticed that in the high density suburbs there s no school for people to learn music. Those who want to learn have to go into the city centre and the academies there are very expensive. So I believe that this academy will go a long way and I ll impart my knowledge and expertise drawing from the 24 yearsI ve been a musician and all this is for free, said Jeys.Some musicians, according to Jeys, have worked under his tutelage for free and are now making it big in the world. There are many people who I ve mentored and off the top of my head they include Oliver Mtukudzi s lead guitarist Rodwell Rodha, Ally Keys who is with South Africa hip hop star Cassper Nyovest, up-and-coming musician Hwabaraty and gospel musician Dumi Nyongolo. There were many people who were encouraging me to set up the school so that they can learn, said Jeys.He said the music academy will be more than a school but a place to groom musicians and prepare them for the challenges of the cut-throat industry. It isn t easy in the industry and there s nothing like instant success. It needs dedication and discipline which takes time. Some just take up music without that knowledge, this music academy will be grooming them and also managing their musical careers, said Jeys.He said the music academy offers rehearsal space and lessons on how to play guitars and keyboards. Presently we are starting off on a small scale at my home in Nkulumane Glenkara where there is rehearsal space and some instruments for the artistes to use. The lessons are for free with seasoned musicians such as Elliot Phiri who will chip in here and there, said Jeys. When the project expands, we ll look at renting out space where we ll make people pay for the service but at a fee that ll be far less than what they charge at music academies around the city. &nbsp;