Manchester City&#8217;s Gabriel Jesus grimaces in pain during the Premier League match against BournemouthManchester City forward Gabriel Jesus broke a metatarsal in Monday s 2-0 Premier League win at Bournemouth. The 19-year-old was taken off in the 15th minute at Vitality Stadium after appearing to pick up the foot injury.City said in a statement: He will undergo further examinations in the coming days to establish the extent of his layoff. The Brazil international, who completed a 27m from Palmeiras in January, has played five times for City.Jesus was hoping to become the third City player to find the net on each of his first three Premier League starts, having scored at West Ham and two against Swansea.The other two players to have achieved that feat are former striker Emmanuel Adebayor and and current midfielder Kevin de Bruyne.Metatarsals are the five long bones in the forefoot which connect the ankle bones to those of the toes.The first is linked to the big toe and the fifth, on the outer foot, links to the little toe.Together, the five metatarsals act as a unit to help share the load of the body, and they move position to cope with uneven ground.Injuries usually occur as a result of a direct blow to the foot, a twisting injury or over-use.Medical experts recommend rest with no exercise and sport for four to eight weeks.The patient might be asked to wear walking boots or stiff-soled shoes to protect the injury while it heals.If the cause is over-use, then treatment can vary hugely. Training habits, equipment used and athletic technique should all be investigated.It all depends on the damage and which metatarsal bone is involved. It is impossible to put a timescale on recovery from a stress injury.With an impact fracture, after the plaster and protective boot is not needed (usually after four to six weeks), it will be a case of exercise and increasing weight-bearing activities.Ice packs, strapping and even the use of oxygen tents can be used to assist recovery.Full return to action can be anything from another four weeks and upwards &#8211; depending on the extent of initial damage. Young bones heal quicker.Meanwhile, Former Valencia defender Roberto Ayala believes Pep Guardiola s methods have started a trend that has proved damaging to football.Ayala, twice a La Liga champion with Valencia and widely regarded as one of the best in his position in Spain, faced Guardiola s Barcelona in the latter part of his career with Real Zaragoza.The centre-back &#8211; who won 115 caps for Argentina &#8211; admits that he has never seen a finer side.However, he could not help feeling that the Manchester City manager s methods have encouraged modern defenders to abandon what should be their primary focus &#8211; defending. Guardiola s Barcelona is the best team I ve seen in my life, but in a way they ve been damaging, he told La Nacion. Now, a lot of defenders want to go out playing as if they were at Barcelona, and no, they can t do that. Centre-backs? Defend first, give me some security. Full-backs? Don t lose sight of that fact that, first and foremost, you are defenders. Ayala was named in the All-Star team for the World Cup in 2006 &#8211; a tournament at which Lionel Messi became Argentina s youngest goalscorer in the tournament at the age of 18 years and 357 days.Messi has gone on to become his country s leading marksman but has faced significant criticism for failing to lead the team to a major trophy, having suffered defeat in three Copa America finals and the World Cup in 2014. BBC.