Winky DLOCAL music giants, Jah Prayzah and Winky D walked away with two awards each at the National Arts Merit Awards held on Saturday evening at the 7 Arts Theatre in Harare. The energetic Ammara Brown who put up a world class performance at BAC Leisure Centre in Bulawayo on Friday scooped her debut Nama as well as Arthur Evans for his new TV show The Arthur Evans show.It was also a big night for the Mungoshi family as Farai Mungoshi won the Outstanding First Creative Published Work award for his book Behind the WallEverywhere. His mother, Jesesi Mungoshi, took home the Outstanding Actress award for her role in the full length feature, Muzita Rababa. It was a happy evening for the family at a time when they are going through a trying time as Farai s father, the renowned author, Charles Mungoshi, ails.It was another disappointing year for dancehall musician Killer T, who has become a perennial nominee, failing to win. He was nominated for Outstanding Song for Takangodaro and the award went to Jah Prayzah whose track Mdhara Vachauya scooped the accolade. He also scooped Outstanding Male artiste.Winky D took Best Album and People s Choice. This is for all the Gafas (Winky D fans). You ve made this possible. I alone cannot do this, I only sing. My younger brother Layan and my producer Oskid also help me to make music so I want to thank them, said Winky D upon receiving the People s Choice Award.Ammara Brown got emotional upon receiving Outstanding Female Musician award, which she dedicated to her late father Andy. She went on stage with her sister Chengeto to receive the award. I stand tall because of my family. I want to thank everyone, my sister Chengeto and my son Khameel who s the light of my life. We learnt a lot from our father and this (award) is for Andy Brown, she said.In the Spoken Word category, Q Dube took Outstanding Comedian award beating Samantha Gonyeti Kureya and Ntando Van Moyo. Anthony Tongani took the Outstanding Actor award, beating Admire Bhutisi Kuzhangaira who was one of the favourites in the category.ZBC s Andrew Neshamba took outstanding journalist in the television category. Takura s Zino Irema was awarded Outstanding Music Video with its director Andy Cutta Sobhuza taking home the gong.To entertain the crowd, Jah Prayzah and his massive Third Generation band took the stage and performed some of his best songs. Different dance groups also showcased their skills on stage and the crowd loved the exciting styles that were shown by the flexible dancers.In the Special Awards category, 2 Kings Entertainment won outstanding promoter while Iyasa was honoured with an Arts Personality Award.Below is the full list of winners:THEATRE AWARDSOutstanding Actor Everson Ndlovu in LiberationOutstanding Actress Rumbidzai Karize in LiberationOutstanding Theatrical Production Liberation by Savanna Trust Outstanding Director Matesu Dube for WarriorSPOKEN WORD AWARDSOutstanding Poet Tinashe TafirenyikaOutstanding Comedian Nqobizitha Dube aka Q Dube3. LITERARY ARTS AWARDSBest Children s Book The Unwelcome Visitor by Farai Nyandoro (Jomo Kenyatta Foundation)Outstanding Fiction Whose Land is it anyway by Benjamin S. Sibanda Special Mention4. VISUAL ARTS AWARDSOutstanding 2 Dimensional Work Gumbeze Renherera by Anthony BumhiraOutstanding 3 Dimensional Work Washing Hair by Edson Kangadza Outstanding Mix Media Work Mhodzi Dzemusango by SeminaMpofu Outstanding Exhibition Woman Curated by Valerie Kabov&amp; Rodney Badza at First Floor Gallery5. DANCE AWARDSOutstanding Female Dancer Christina Jenkins in GhostOutstanding Male Dancer Stephanie Thomas in PhantomOutstanding Dance Group Breakthrough ProductionsOutstanding Choreographer Timikha Fisher Listen6. FILM AND TELEVISION AWARDSOutstanding Actress Jesesi Mungoshi in Muzita RababaOutstanding Actor Anthony Tongani in ConflictsOutstanding Music Video Zino Irema (Ndirikukuwonai Zvangu) by Andy Cutta Sobhuza ft. TakuraOutstanding Screen Production (TV) The Arthur C Evans Show directed by Trey NcubeOutstanding Screen Production &#8211; Short Film Seiko directed by Sydney TaivavasheOutstanding Screen Production &#8211; Full Length Film Muzitarababa directed by Nick Zemura7. MEDIA AWARDSOutstanding Journalist &#8211; Print Tinashe Muchuri NewsDayOutstanding Journalist &#8211; Radio Tawanda Gudhlanga SFMOutstanding Journalist TV Andrew Neshamba &#8211; ZBCOutstanding Online Media Zimbuzz8. MUSIC AWARDSOutstanding Female Musician Ammara BrownOutstanding Male Musician Mukudzei Mukombe aka Jah PrayzahOutstanding Album Gafa Futi by Wallace Chirimuko aka Winky DOutstanding Song Mdhara Vachauya by Mukudzei Mukombe aka Jah Prayzah9. SPECIAL AWARDSOutstanding Promoter 2 Kings Entertainment10. Arts Personality Award IYASA. ZimboJam/HarareBureau&nbsp;