Miss Tourism Zim Ashley Morgen flanked by her princesses Nonhlanhla Dube and Shirley-Anne LindseyBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MISS Tourism Zimbabwe Ashley Morgen will keep her car, a Toyota Vitz, for good according to MTZ Trust &#8211; organisers of the pageant. A prize giving ceremony was held at Pabloz, Sam Levy s Village in Borrowdale, Harare on Tuesday last week where Morgen received her $20 000 prize money and a car.She also received $2 500 for being People s Choice and her two princesses, Nonhlanhla Dube (Miss Agro-Tourism) and Shirley-Ann Lindsay (Miss City Tourism), walked away $10 000 and $5 000 richer, respectively.The other finalists received $1 000 each as well as a year s tuition at a college of their choice.MTZ spokesperson Alson Darikayi said with regards to the car, a Toyota Vitz, Morgen would keep it for good. We have had other pageants awarding their queens cars and letting them keep them. We saw it fit for Ashley to keep her car even after her reign is over, said Darikayi.He said they held the prize giving ceremony at the behest of the principal sponsor of the pageant, South Africa-based businessman Justice Maphosa. The models were last week awarded at a small ceremony at Pabloz. The anchor sponsor, South African-based businessman Justice Maphosa flew in on Tuesday and immediately asked us to round up the models for a prize giving ceremony as he was going to travel to a far off country. We did so and we have given them their monies in cash. They were given the rand equivalent to their prize money and even those who were given scholarships received their cash amounts, said Darikayi.He said the queen would go to her home in Victoria Falls to spend time with her family. Ever since she was crowned, Ashley hasn t had time to spend with her family. So they requested to have her at home before she goes back to University. So she ll be travelling to Victoria Falls at the end of this week. Thereafter she ll start her reign until we crown the next Miss Tourism Zimbabwe at a date we shall announce, said Darikayi.