Charles MunganasaFrom Walter Mswazie in Masvingo A Masvingo-based film actor and script writer, Charles Munganasa whose play, The Graduates has been nominated for the National Arts Merit Awards (Nama) is on cloud nine. The University of Zimbabwe (UZ) BSc Honours Film and Theatre Arts graduate, said he is honoured for being one of the nominees as it shows that his works are being noticed.The play garnered two nominations &#8211; Farirai Mukumba is in the running for the Outstanding Actress award and Munganasa vying for the Outstanding Director.Munganasa wrote the play by chance when a crew that was scheduled to present a play from Harare during a competition at Masvingo s Charles Austin Theatre failed to come. The idea for The Graduates came through improvisational theatre at Charles Austin Theatre when a play that was supposed to come from Harare failed to come and we had to improvise something. After noticing the positive response from the audience I then decided to sit down and pen a proper story which is inspired by the struggle of everyday vendors, said Munganasa.He said he was motivated to develop the story after realising that some of his educated peers were into vending instead of being found in spacious offices as their professions entail. In doing my research I noticed that half of the vendors in Masvingo are actually educated people who ended up on the street one way or another hence the title The Graduates . My art piece signifies the importance of unity in solving our disputes without necessarily putting blame on anyone. Directing The Graduates was made easy due to the fact that I had a brilliant cast with the likes of Khetani Banda who has performed in countries like Greece and is highly venerated in the theatre circles, he said.Munganasa hopes to leave an indelible mark at the awards ceremony in Harare next week by scooping even the top gong. To be honest, winning a Nama will be a great achievement. If all goes well and I win an award I ll be over the moon and by being nominated it shows I m one of the best play writers and directors in Zimbabwe, he added.Munganasa hailed Charles Austin Theatre for providing a platform for up and coming artistes in Masvingo to showcase their talents. He praised its management for helping nurture his talent, developing into a recognised artiste.His exploits in acting were identified by his teachers during his primary education days at Victoria Junior in Masvingo. He led a vibrant drama club which won a number of accolades in the late 1990s.He then went to high school where he continued showcasing his talents and finally enrolled with the University of Zimbabwe and completed his degree in 2014.He said he is inspired by a Masvingo musician, Peace Ndlovu aka Baba Shupi.@walterbmswazie2