Minister Makhosini HlongwaneRicky Zililo, Senior Sports Reporter THE Chevrons yo-yo performances raised by Sport and Recreation Minister Makhosini Hlongwane last week came to pass on Sunday when the national cricket team lost the decisive one-day international to concede the five-match series 2-3 to Afghanistan. The Afghans rolled Zimbabwe over for 54, helping the visitors seal a 3-2 series win, with a 106-run Duckworth-Lewis method victory in the final ODI at Harare Sports Club.Hlongwane had expressed serious concerns about the Chevrons continued series losses to Afghanistan after Zimbabwe lost their opening two matches. We can t have a cricket team that every year they play they are being defeated. They are not serious. Now they re being beaten by Afghanistan. If Afghanistan wants to add points to their rankings, they come to Zimbabwe and then you want us to keep quiet, said Hlongwane. We can t have spasms of brilliance, you win today you lose for three years. That performance cannot be accepted. There is need for consistency. When they lose to teams like Australia it can be understood, but not Afghanistan. That s not right, he said.The Chevrons flattered the home fans by coming from behind to level the series 2-2 with strong performances in the third and fourth matches.Their bowling was particularly top-notch in the third game when they impressively defended a score of 129 by dismissing the visitors for 126 to win by three runs.The Zimbabwe batting was not complementary of the bowling despite victories in the third and fourth matches.In the second ODI, which Zimbabwe lost by 54 runs, the batsmen managed to put on 184 runs off 42.1 overs.Zimbabwe won the fourth ODI by seven wickets through Duckworth-Lewis method to level the series.The fourth victory had given a glimmer of hope that the Chevrons could do the unthinkable and complete a great comeback.However, their flattery was laid bare on Sunday when they were bowled out for a low 54, chasing a revised target of 161 in 22 overs following rain interruptions. The Afghans had set the hosts a target of 250 in their allotted 50 overs.Sunday s loss left the Chevrons still chasing their first series win over Afghanistan.Afghanistan have beaten Zimbabwe 11 times in 19 meetings.In October 2015, Afghanistan became the first non-Test playing country to win a multi-game bilateral ODI series against a Test side when the beat Zimbabwe 3-2 at Queens Sports Club in Bulawayo.In 2014, Zimbabwe blew a 2-0 lead to draw a four-match ODI. That was followed by Afghanistan s 3-2 ODI series win plus a 2-0 T20 victory at Queens Sports Club in 2015.Playing at a neutral venue, Sharjah Cricket Stadium in the United Arab Emirates in January last year, Zimbabwe lost 2-3 to Afghanistan.@ZililoR