Andile Tshuma, Court Reporter FOUR sisters and their cousin have each been fined $100 for assaulting a neighbour following a misunderstanding, an attack they recorded. The Dube s sisters Bridget (26), Previous (18), Beauty (30), Kimberly (17) and their cousin Perseverance Tshuma (28) all of Nkulumane suburb in Bulawayo appeared before Western Commonage magistrate Ms Nyaradzo Ringisai for assaulting their neighbour Ms Rumbidzai Parwaringira (28).The four siblings and their cousin denied the assault charges.Ms Parwaringira told the magistrate that one of the sisters filmed the incident, and footage of the assault was shown in court.Magistrate Ringisai convicted the accused persons after the State proved its case.The magistrate reprimanded them for taking the law into their own hands. The accused persons are all found guilty of assault. It is silly and unwomanly to go around beating people and such acts deserve jail time. The court will exercise leniency on you because you are all first offenders. You are therefore sentenced to pay a fine of $100 each before February 28, 2017, he said.Prosecuting, Mr Stewart Madzore said the five women assaulted Ms Parwaringira two weeks ago after one of them had called her a prostitute. On February 5, the complainant was at her place of residence when Bridget Dube started insulting her saying she was a witch and a prostitute who could not afford to pay rentals. The complainant sought an explanation for the insults and the accused person invited her to come over to her house so that they could solve the issue amicably. Upon arrival at the accused person s house, the complainant was slapped in the face by Bridget and when she decided to leave, Bridget s siblings joined in the beating. They assaulted her with open hands, fists and kicked her. They also pulled her hair, resulting in some of it falling off, said the prosecutor.Ms Parwaringira sustained head injuries and bruises all over the body and sought medical attention. She reported the matter to the police.@andile_tshuma