Paul Mundandi, Harare Bureau ZIMBABWE&#8217;S Confederation Cup representatives Ngezi Platinum Stars are expected to leave for Zambia this morning for two international friendly matches against Red Arrows and Zambian champions Zanaco. Ngezi will play Red Arrows tomorrow afternoon at Nkonkola Stadium and will wind up their tour by taking on Zanaco at the same stadium on Friday.The trip comes after Ngezi cancelled their scheduled friendly match against Dos Desportos de Chingale in Mozambique.The trip was cancelled due to persistent rains and security concerns in that part of Mozambique. It is a very important trip to us and I am very grateful to the management for assisting us with the preparations,&#8221; said coach Tonderai Ndiraya. We had wanted to play at home during the weekend because we did not want to travel since we will be travelling again next week. We wanted to play at home so that we would have enough time to rest but we have agreed to go to Zambia because of the quality of the teams. They will give us a good test since they have played in these tournaments before. It is a very good platform for us and since our last match is on Friday we will have seven days to rest before we travel to Mauritius. Ndiraya is a relieved man as Washington Pakamisa, Kenneth Bulaji, Qadr Amin and Donald Teguru have also recovered and are expected to make the trip to Zambia.Last Sunday Zanaco lost 1-2 to Caps United at the same venue and invited Ngezi to tour their country.The Zambian champions have Zimbabwean midfielder Zimiseleni Moyo on their books.He played for Tsholotsho last season.Zanaco chairman Edward Mutale has hailed Caps United director Farai Jere for his leadership qualities which has transformed Makepekepe into champions of Zimbabwe. The Caps United director is gifted and has transformed the team since he took over. I can see the team going places and following our defeat we had no choice but to follow him to his hotel to change notes, said Mutale. We learnt a lot from the institution and we will continue exchanging notes. We never thought the team could beat us after we watched them fall to Red Arrows. We are the best team here but we also found that their players are tactically good and very strong. He has a great team which is very organised and forceful. I, however, noted that they are two players who need to improve their discipline. 