Mrs Laurinda Mphoko presents groceries worth thousands of dollars to Ingutsheni Central Hospital Clinical Director, Dr Wellington Ranga, in Bulawayo yesterday.Looking on is the Choppies Managing Director Mr Siqokoqela Mphoko (left) and hospital staff.Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter CHOPPIES Zimbabwe has donated groceries worth more than $3 000 to Ingutsheni Central Hospital in Bulawayo. The donation consisted of washing powder, sanitary wear, 10 cases of laundry soap, petroleum jelly, food, toilet cleaners, toilet paper, sugar beans, adult diapers, dish washing liquid, rice, mealie-meal, soya chunks and bleach.Speaking at the handover ceremony in the city yesterday, the Managing Director of Choppies Zimbabwe, Mr Siqokoqela Mphoko, said giving to charity was part of the supermarket chain s corporate social responsibility programme. This is coming from our hearts. We have donated before to other institutions in and outside Bulawayo. We felt that it was necessary to extend a helping hand to Ingutsheni. We have heard of their cries and plight. Next time we are coming in with medical supplies. We thank Mama Mrs VP Mphoko for being with us and giving us dignity. We are just thankful to God that we are privileged and because of that, we should help our brothers and sisters, he added.Presenting the consignment, Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko s wife, Laurinda, highlighted the need to share with the less fortunate in society. I ll also take this opportunity to thank all the Choppies customers who have made it possible for us to make such a donation through their unwavering support. She challenged other companies and organisations to take a leaf from Choppies supermarkets and assist society. So when we re doing such work it doesn t mean we always have to bring a lot of things. The little things that we do for others give joy to the Lord, Mrs Mphoko said. We encourage shop owners and those who are capable to come and assist at Ingutsheni as there are many problems that need to be solved. When God gives it s important to share what you have with other people.Ingutsheni Central Hospital s clinical director, Dr Wellington Ranga, received the consignment from Mrs Mphoko. We would like to extend our gratitude to the Choppies family who have extended a helping hand to us during this visit and we know it will go a long way in meeting the day to day needs of this hospital, said Dr Ranga.Ingutsheni acting Chief Executive Officer, Mr Nyasha Chibvongodze, said the hospital needs $50 000 per month and is running at less than 10 percent capacity. We are struggling. We are grateful that we have a government grant but it is not enough for all our needs. We always lack protein and this leads to diseases such as pellagra and malnutrition. We have geriatric and paediatric wards which house patients with special dietary needs. Such a kind gesture is much appreciated, said Mr Chibvongodze.In January, a scurvy outbreak hit the institution due to a poor diet. About 650 patients are admitted at any given time at the hospital, which has a capacity of housing 750 inmates. @andile-tshuma