Sukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent A MAN from Mangwe man has dragged his ex-wife to court demanding maintenance for their three minor children after accusing the woman of deserting them. Mr Finders Mpofu (38) of Empandeni area told a court that Ms Petronella Ncube (35) fled to Botswana in 2014 and left their three daughters who were then aged four, eight and 12 under his care.He said his ex-wife worked in the neighbouring country for a year but did not contribute anything towards the upkeep of their children.Mr Mpofu said he expected his ex-wife to pay $100 maintenance for their children.He also said his ex-wife was refusing to live with the children. My ex-wife ran away in October 2014 after we separated and left me with the children. She later came back in 2015 and she was granted custody of our children. She stayed with them for only six months and she dumped them at my doorstep last year in February and went to live in another village. From then she has never stayed with the children. Whenever I send them to her home she chases them away or refuses to give them food. As of now she isn t in good books with the children and they have since stopped visiting her, said Mr Mpofu.He said the $100 maintenance fee that he expected from his ex-wife would cater for the children s school fees, clothing and food. Mr Mpofu said his 11-year-old daughter was not attending school as she failed to collect her Grade Seven results due to school fees arrears amounting to $360.He said Ms Ncube promised to clear the debt but had not done so. I don t have a source of income your Worship but I m a communal farmer and this helps me to get food for my children. My wife is the one who is working although I m not sure how much she earns I know that she works as a domestic worker. She is also a prophet and she moves around praying for people and they pay her for services, said Mr Mpofu.Ms Ncube, however, denied that she was working.She said her ex-husband was constantly threatening her and assaulting her.Ms Ncube said as a result of the threats she abandoned her job and had gone into hiding.She also said she had asked a male relative to move around with her out of fear of being attacked by her ex-husband.The woman said she was no longer a prophet as her ex-husband had influenced her clients to shun her.Plumtree magistrate Mr Joshua Mawere ordered Ms Ncube to pay $30 towards the upkeep of her children each month.He said the upkeep of children was the responsibility of both parents.@DubeMatutu