Mesut OzilArsenal ace Mesut Ozil has a dismal record against top-quality opposition, something he needs to address in today s Champions League clash with Bayern. The Germany international has already scored more goals this season (9) than in his three previous campaigns at the Emirates, while he racked up more assists (36) in his first 100 Premier League games than every other centurion except for Eric Cantona (39) &#8211; yet his performances of late have been so poor that Wenger felt obliged to have a chat with his playmaker on Friday.Wenger wanted to get to the root of Ozil s dramatic dip in form; to lift his spirits ahead of Saturday s Premier League meeting with Hull City. He failed on both counts, with Ozil turning in another ineffective display against the Tigers.Wenger admitted afterwards he was at a loss to explain the former Schalke starlet s sudden loss of self-belief. It can happen, the Frenchman admitted. But I don t know any specific reason [for it]. I felt he did not feel confident. It s always a problem because you think he can deliver something special but it s true that, technically, he was missing things that he is not used to [missing]. Of course, Ozil s critics will once again argue that he is simply conforming to type; that he is not a man to be relied upon; that he goes missing when Arsenal need him most.It is an allegation that has dogged the attacking midfielder since he arrived in north London in 2013, an eagerly anticipated 42.5 million ( 47m) signing from Real Madrid.Former England boss Glenn Hoddle raised the issue once again after watching Eden Hazard inspire Premier League leaders Chelsea to a 3-1 win over Arsenal at Stamford Bridge just over a week ago. The contrast with Mesut Ozil was unavoidable, the ex-Tottenham ace argued. The bigger the game, the better Hazard plays. For Ozil, despite his record as a World Cup winner and a Liga champion, you feel it s the opposite. Certainly, since arriving at Arsenal in 2013, Ozil has often underwhelmed in the Gunners biggest games.In total, he has lined up against the five other members of the Premier League s big six (Manchester United, Manchester City, Liverpool, Chelsea and Tottenham) 32 times in all competitions. He has managed five goals and eight assists in those games.He has never finished on the winning side against Tottenham in the league. Indeed, with Ozil in the team, Arsenal have lost more EPL games than they have won against all five of their biggest rivals &#8211; bar Liverpool.Of course, Wenger will argue that blaming Ozil for Arsenal s poor record is unfair, further evidence of the desire to make the 28-year-old the scapegoat for the Gunners perceived deficiencies, and it is true that Ozil cops more flak than others after an Arsenal setback.Everyone has an opinion on the club s record signing and they re not always positive. Even Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn recently got involved in the ongoing debate over Ozil s contract extension, arguing that the German should be happy with the money that he s already on, while former Gunners centre-half Martin Keown has claimed that Ozil would not have got into the Invincibles side that went undefeated through their 2003-04 league-winning campaign. Goal.com&nbsp;