Arsene WengerCape Town Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has taken a swipe at Arsenal fans for not supporting the team through tough moments throughout the season, while praising rivals Tottenham Hotspur fans. Wenger came under increasing scrutiny after a disappointing defeat to league leaders Chelsea tomorrow with some fans at the Emirates Stadium seen to be holding banners calling for his removal.Sky Sports pundit, Gary Neville staunchly defended the Frenchman, brandishing one particular fan who was displaying a banner calling for Wenger s sacking an idiot.The beleaguered Gunners boss took a swipe at Arsenal fans while praising the support their rivals, Spurs received. I don t feel you can be a fan until last Tuesday and then not be behind the team anymore. It doesn t make sense. Other clubs such as Tottenham has everyone behind their team and we have to do the same, he said.Wenger refuses to believe his side are out of the Premier League title race despite falling 12 points behind Chelsea last weekend.The Gunners were comprehensively beaten by their London rivals in their last Premier League outing and find themselves in fourth place, behind Manchester City, Tottenham Hotspur as well as Chelsea.However, Wenger is still confident his side can challenge for the title, insisting anything can happen with 14 games left in the season. It is never over; we are not to behave like that. Even if you [reporters] think like that, I don t, he said. We look at the teams who surround us, we are all in a pack that is very tight and the fight for every position is massive as it has always been in the Premier League &#8211; maybe even more so this season. [Top four] is always difficult but maybe even tighter than ever. The way we respond to a disappointing result last Saturday is vital, he said. If it is over [title race] for us then it is over for everyone else because we are in a pack there. They [Chelsea] have an advantage &#8211; they don t play in Europe, they play for nothing and have no midweek games. He also insisted rumours about Arsenal s interest in signing Manchester City goalkeeper Joe Hart, who is currently on loan with Serie A club Torino, are nothing but hearsay.Meanwhile, Juventus manager Massimiliano Allegri refuses to confirm or deny the speculation linking him with a move to Arsenal at the end of the season.Gunners boss Arsene Wenger s current deal expires this year as he is yet to sign a new contract, which has led to reports claiming that Allegri is being lined up as his successor.However, the Bianconeri boss had no interest in fuelling the speculation, when he spoke after Juve s 2-0 win over Crotone on Wednesday. I won t deny or confirm anything, Allegri told Mediaset Premium. I am in sync with the club, now we have to focus on winning. At this time of the season the media always says I m leaving, even when things are going really well. Juventus chief executive Giuseppe Marotta also expressed his belief that Allegri will continue his work at Juve. Aside from the fact we have a contract with Allegri, I think there are still great targets we need to achieve together and our rapport is very good, Marotta told Mediaset Premium. There is no reason for him to leave Juventus as there is great mutual admiration and affection. FixturesTomorrow: Arsenal v Hull City (14:30 Emirates Stadium), Stoke City v Crystal Palace (17:00 Britannia Stadium), West Ham United v West Bromwich Albion (17:00 London Stadium), anchester United v Watford (17:00 Old Trafford), Middlesbrough v Everton (17:00 Riverside Stadium), underland v Southampton (17:00 Stadium of Light), Liverpool v Tottenham Hotspur (19:30 Anfield)Sunday: Burnley v Chelsea (15:30 Turf Moor), Swansea City v Leicester City (18:00 Liberty Stadium).Monday: AFC Bournemouth v Manchester City (22:00 Vitality Stadium). Sport24.