Arthur Evans with family as they celebrateBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent BULAWAYO artistes are revelling in the glory of the National Arts Merit Awards that they won over the weekend saying the achievement was a stamp of approval for their art. Iyasa, Arthur Evans, Andy Cutta and Matesu Dube received accolades in the various categories that they were nominated for.Iyasa received recognition through the Arts Personality Award in the Special Awards. Under the Film and Television Awards Andy Cutta won Outstanding Music Video for producing the music video for Takura s Zino Irema while Arthur Evans won the Outstanding Screen Production. In the Theatre Awards, Umkhathi director Matesu Dube won the Outstanding Director for the play Warrior.Evans, through his self named show whose first season ended two weeks ago on Dstv s Zambezi Magic, said all the credit should go to the people behind the scenes. The award is very important for us as it s recognition of the hard work that the team behind the scenes did. People like my co-producer and director Trey Ncube and all the guys behind the scenes should take credit for the award. It s not a personal award but it s for the team, said Evans.His partner in the screen production Trey shared the same sentiments. It s important to acknowledge the role of the NAMAs in building the creative arts industry as far as recognition is concerned in terms of those putting in work. I d like to thank all my crew and guests who came on and made the show outstanding and special. They re the unsung heroes, said Trey.Iyasa director Nkululeko Dube said the award capped a good 2016 as they commemorated 15 years in the industry. This award couldn t have come at a better time as Iyasa celebrates 15 years in the arts. It s the icing on the cake and it shows that people in Zimbabwe have been watching and appreciating what we ve been doing, said Dube. It gives us the impetus to grow the arts industry and continue doing what we re doing as a group. Matesu Dube, who directed the play Warrior, said he was happy to have won the gong for the Christopher Mlalazi-written play. I m happy that I ve got the award in my first major directorial play. I ve done many minor plays and I believe they helped me to land this award. This will spur me on to work on another play and in that endeavour wish to bag another award, said Dube.Andy Cutta, who is not new to winning awards after bagging a Zimbabwe Music award for the Best Music video last year for the Roki and Ex-Q collabo Alleluya, said he did not expect to win because there were a lot of quality music videos released last year. I didn t see this coming as there was a lot of good stuff that was released by people. Winning this award keeps me motivated because it tells me I m on the right path and the next step is to make a mark in Africa, said Cutta.&nbsp;