Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter THE Bulawayo City Council has reversed its decision to slash crops cultivated on stream banks. Crop slashing was last carried out by council in 2011 and last month the municipality said it would destroy all crops on stream banks.On Wednesday, the full council meeting dragged as councillors debated the issue.Ward Nine councillor Charles Moyo said the decision to slash maize which emanated from the environmental, management and engineering services committee was inappropriate given that the city was receiving good rains after a long time. Your Worship, I propose that for this year we let our residents harvest their crops. Everyone is happy with the rains, we haven t received such good rains in years and we must be grateful to the Lord Almighty and let the people enjoy too. Most people are not working, our industry is closed, there are vendors and it s raining these days. Business is low so the best we can do for them as council is to let them harvest their crops, said Clr Moyo.Councillors Ephraim Ncube, Mlandu Ncube and Rodney Jele, Siboniso Khumalo concurred with councillor Moyo to suspend slashing of crops this year.Councillors Silas Chigora, Lot Siziba, Gideon Mangena, Sheila Musonda and Councillor Sithabile Mataka, Clyton Zana were against the suspension of maize slashing saying it fuelled crime. Where I come from this maize is posing a danger to society. Recently, a granny was raped while coming from a funeral. She was dragged into a maize field, raped and left unconscious, said Clr Musonda.He said residents had also ploughed in a soccer pitch in North End suburb and the maize had to be slashed.Clr Chigora said the mandate of the council was to keep Bulawayo safe and clean. The mandate of the committee is to keep the city of Bulawayo safe and clean. We need to be consistent with our by-laws, next year it s going to be the same story as 2019. All by-laws must be maintained without discrimination whether you are a councillor or not, he argued.Bulawayo Mayor Clr Martin Moyo said residents can be given a reprieve considering the good rains. Sometimes you don t have to break the law but you can bend it, therefore we are suspending the slashing of crops cultivated in undesignated places until June 2018, said Clr Moyo.The councillors resolved to embark on awareness campaigns before the next farming season to stop people from cultivating crops in undesignated areas. @AuxiliaK