Tanaka Mrewa, Court Reporter THREE men from Bulawayo who hijacked a pirate taxi and used it to rob an illegal money changer of more than R75 000, have each been sentenced to seven years in prison. The three were part of a gang of five men that attacked Onisimo Matanga (41) in Four Winds suburb and drove away in his vehicle after dumping him close to Hillside Police Station.Venson Nzima (22), Africa Dube (24) and Anisto Nyoni (22), who all pleaded not guilty, were however convicted by Bulawayo regional magistrate Mr Chrispen Mberewere.Mr Mberewere said the trio s conduct showed that they are lazy. You are all young and able bodied men but you decided to attempt an easier way of getting money. It makes no sense to steal from people who work hard to sustain their families. You shall be an example to people out there who are doing the same thing or planning to. Society can never be safe with people like you. The gravity of your offence doesn t allow you a non-custodial sentence despite the fact that you are first offenders, he said.The three will serve an effective four years in prison after two years were suspended on condition of good behaviour.The other year was suspended on condition the trio each restitutes the complainant R18 000, $333 and P2 533 on or before June 30, 2017.Agreed facts are that the trio, in the company of their two accomplices who are still at large, drove the stolen vehicle into town where they monitored a siphatheleni for some time.Prosecuting, Mr Simbarashe Manyiwa told the court that on January 3 at 5PM, the gang asked the taxi driver to drive them to Bagcwele Beer Garden in Four Winds suburb. Matanga asked for his money when they got to the beer garden. Farai Chitsa, who s still at large, grabbed him by the neck from behind. The rest of the gang joined in assaulting the complainant with a small claw hammer, threatening him with death if he attempted to escape. They stole $40 cash and a Samsung cell phone valued at $50, said Mr Manyiwa. The gang drove into town and spotted Ms Ennie Usavi (41), a money changer whom they monitored. They followed her to her house in Pumula South.While driving near AFM church, the gang intentionally side swiped her car and she stopped to attend to the accident. @tannytkay