BusiswaNhlalwenhle Ngwenya UNITED Kingdom-based music promoters, Y2K promotions, are spreading their wings and will for the first time bring their annual Southern African Music Arts (SAMA) Festival to Bulawayo next month. The SAMA festival, if all goes according to plan, will be held at the City Hall Car Park on August 4 and will feature performances from Jamaica s Busy Signal and South Africa s Busiswa among many others before it is taken to Harare the next day.Local artistes Winky D, Killer T, Cal_Vin, Sandra Ndebele, Mzoe 7, Tocky Vibes, Seh Calaz, Centre Party, DJ Lizzy, Madlela Skhobokhobo and Judgment Yard are also billed to perform at the event which will serve as a competition between dancehall and house music.Y2K promotions manager Brian Holyman Hazanguri said they were excited to be bringing the festival to Zimbabwe, especially Bulawayo after having hosted a string of successful events abroad in the past 15 years. The main thrust for Y2K promotions is to give artistes a platform to showcase their talent. We believe that music is diverse and it should be enjoyed in every sphere. As one of the biggest promotions companies, we want Bulawayo and Harare music lovers to be exposed to different types of music. Since this our first SAMA festival in Zimbabwe, we want to make it worthwhile, said Hazanguri.Busy SignalHe said all was set for the local festival. Everything has been arranged, we re now just waiting for the day of the show and for people to come in their numbers. We ve finalised contracts with the main acts, Busiswa and Busy Signal and they re definitely going to be there. All the paper work has been done. Advance tickets are already available and have been pegged at $10 and $25 for VIPs. They are being sold at the City Hall, BAC Leisure and TOK Sports shop.Y2K promotions is not a new name as this was the first music promotion company to facilitate the performance of most local acts in the UK.The SAMA festival began in August 2009 and is aimed at promoting musicians with African origins, predominantly from Southern Africa. Zimbabwean acts that have previously headlined the SAMA Festival are Mafriq, Roki, Winky D, Sniper Storm, Shingai Shoniwa and The Noisettes.This year s UK festival was held in April and was oversubscribed. It featured performances from Oliver Mtukudzi, Winky D, Jah Prayzah and Fungisai Zvakavapano-Mashavave.The company is also popular as it keeps those abroad abreast with the latest music in Zimbabwe as well as news about their artistes by availing it on their website www.y2kpromotions.com.