Trinity SibandaBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent TRINITY Sibanda, who has found fame after being voted the best imitator of South African entertainer Zodwa Wabantu, has clinched endorsement deals from local companies valued close to $10 000. Trinity, who was last Friday voted the best imitator, walked away with $300 and will be hosting Zodwa when she comes to Bulawayo tomorrow. She has since named herself Trino Bambina (which means beautiful lady) and set up a Facebook fan page.Due to her sudden popularity ahead of Zodwa Wabantu s appearance at Club Connect tomorrow night, some companies have offered her endorsement deals which will cover her transport, meals, clothing, beauty care and therapy for the next six months.Food Lovers Market, The Rack, Clinique Caress, Rapid Car Sales, Ecopia Car Sales, Red Cafe, Club 263 and Umqombothi Sports Bar are some of the companies that have pledged to support Trino.Food Lovers Market was the first to endorse her after she went to their restaurant with friends for lunch and caused a stir there. This week, Trino Bambina caused a stir at Food Lover s where staff and patrons jostled to take pictures with her. In light of that, Food Lovers came forward to offer meals for her anytime she wants, said Club Connect spokesperson, Zandile Moyo.A new eatery and pub, Red Cafe has offered her free meals worth $1 800 with Umqombothi Sports Bar pledging to host a braai for her and friends tomorrow.A local clothing shop, The Rack has offered to dress Trino for the next six months. Each month, she will have an allocation of $500. Beauty spa, Clinique Caress will take care of her makeup, pedicure, manicure, facials and massage, valued at $2 000.To boost her celebrity status, Rapid Car Sales and Ecopia Car Sales have thrown in two cars for her to use for one week with her friends, a deal valued at $1 680. Club 263 has provided a kombi that will be used tomorrow, when Zodwa arrives in the country.Moyo said the cars that Trino Bambina has been offered will also be used to ferry Zodwa Wabantu in the City of Kings. The South African entertainer is expected to touch down in Bulawayo tomorrow afternoon.Moyo said they wanted to develop a culture of socialites in the city hence they were excited to be hosting Zodwa Wabantu and promoting Trino. People should develop this culture of being socialites in the city. They should be the life of the party and whenever they walk into the nightclub, their presence should be felt. We want to cultivate that, she said.Zodwa, according to Club Connect officials, has booked one of their VIP booths for $2 500. Zodwa will be in Bulawayo to party and she has booked one of the VIP booths for $2 500. Right next to her will be Trino Bambina and her entourage who ve also booked another VIP booth. We want to see who ll party the hardest, the longest and who ll buy the most expensive drinks on the night, said Moyo.Trino Bambina said she was happy with her new found fame. All this happened so fast. I entered the competition last week to have fun and at the same time win $300. But now, I ve all these endorsements and people recognise me on the streets, said Trino Bambina.She said although she was nervous with the coming of Zodwa she was prepared to be the life of the party tomorrow. I ve been working on my outfit and thanks to The Rack, my outfit is in order. I want to outshine Zodwa and show her that Zimbabwe has fine ladies as well. 