Bulawayo mayor Martin Moyo (red tie) poses for a picture with the Sables team and managementSikhumbuzo Moyo, Senior Sports Reporter BULAWAYO has declared total war on the pitch against the visiting Kenyan rugby team when it takes on Zimbabwe s Sables in the Rugby Africa Gold Cup at Hartsfield Ground this afternoon as international rugby makes a return to the city. The mayor of Bulawayo, Martin Moyo, told the Sables and Zimbabwe Rugby Union leadership on Thursday night that victory was certain.Chairman of the local organising committee (LOC) for the epic clash Theo Weale weighed in, saying the whole city will be fully behind the Sables, with Hartsfield expected to be filled to capacity.The (LOC) announced during the week that school children in uniform would have free entrance to Hartsfield, which should set the stage for a full stadium to rally behind the bruised Sables, following their away loss to Namibia last week.Zimbabwe let slip a seemingly healthy lead against Namibia at the Hage Geingob Stadium in Windhoek last week. The Sables let go a 16-point first half lead to crush to a 26-31 defeat, although there was controversy over Namibia s winning try.The defeat is now water under the bridge and Bulawayo is ready to roar again and cheer the boys against the visitors this afternoon.Moyo told the Sables squad at a reception hosted for them by Delta Beverages on Thursday night that victory was certain. Come Saturday, siyanqoba because that is what we are. We are really happy that you are here and we wish you well and also pray that we qualify for the World Cup and make names for yourselves as individuals and as a country, said Moyo.The Simbas make a return to Bulawayo exactly 13 years since they fell 15-24 to Zimbabwe at the same ground and that might give Cyprian Mandenge s Sables a psychological advantage. Moyo said Bulawayo was proud to play host to the match, adding that they viewed it as a huge opportunity for sports tourism and an opportunity for the city and country to sell its image. This for us as the City of Bulawayo is a momentous occasion; it has been a long time since we had an international rugby match here. We all know that Zimbabwe is beset with economic challenges and these challenges require that we sell ourselves as a country so as to attract investment and what better ambassadors than yourselves. You have invited the Kenyans here and probably some of them will want to come back and set up business here in Bulawayo and that will be thanks to you, said Moyo.Kenya are ranked 26th in the World Rugby rankings. The Simbas are presently second on the Rugby Africa Gold Cup log with 12-points from three matches, while the Sables dropped into fourth place last Saturday with six-points off two matches. The Zimbabweans have a game in hand.Namibia are undefeated and top the log with 15 points from three matches while Uganda are third with 11 points.When Sables play Simbas, the Welwitschias, as Namibia are known, will be playing the Cranes in Uganda. The Sables will host Tunisia next Saturday in Harare and travel to Uganda for their last match on August 5.Apart from the Gold Cup being the African title fight, the top-tier tournament also serves as the 2019 Rugby World Cup qualifiers.The winner gets the second slot for Africa at the world rugby showcase.South Africa qualify automatically for the World Cup. @skhumoyo2000