Morris Mpala, MoB Capital Ltd IT S a perceived accolade in that you are not judging yourself in the field. And perception does count in the evil area of cold business manoeuvres. But the question that arises is are we really honouring those deserving business actors that have the oomph, cream dela cr me, that have a bounce, have the right acumen and exhibit talented hard working brains that want to make a difference in the community they serve? Or it s a hocus-pocus gimmick that is bravado in nature and meant to stroke the ego of winners to selfish ends but not based on any science whatsoever? Performance We have a situation where those that win will have deserved and their performance in their respective fields is worth the marvel. It is beautiful when that happens and tears of joy will be in order so will be the ululations not to mention champagne popping.Noise There is that chance of rewarding the noise than the actual performance. Popularity, which is mostly confused as it is familiar to the detriment of the awarding body. The noise is what we call smokes and screens, that is, the show. This distorts actual performance by creating a show, which is different from reality or things on the ground. Guess what, at times noise wins awards because it s difficult to pierce the corporate veil of secrecy on performance. So what makes you think industry will willingly give out their performance figures when it s natural to be secretive.Lies The forwarded data from nominees is difficult to verify such that lies are taken as fact and winners are based on lies. It also becomes a contest of who can sugar coat their statistics to suit the occasion better for selfish means. It causes challenges for adjudicators to ascertain real and cooked statistics. Industry has always been economic with the truth even public accountants with yester years are littered with unholy alliances where disclosure to the public was minimal when reports are of an adverse nature. It s an arena of strict confidentiality and to think they will just volunteer information to total strangers, maybe.Fund raising If you are clever you could use it to coin it and let it be a business venture. Or just a show to have fun and be the old boys club as it were where our friends, acquaintances, sponsors, confidantes are rewarded at the expense of real winners.To err is human Those awarding accolades can disappoint by making genuine errors in their assessment and that is understood greatly. Such is life and that is forgiven the lucky ones can celebrate and those affected can sulk and cower in shame but nothing malicious on a genuine error.Nominations Who does the nomination? What motivates the nomination? Is nomination really public based or it s a preserve of the few who might not be knowledgeable with the facets or might have little knowledge, data or info on those possible nominees. Nomination process is based on being famous to those with the power to nominate. The less louder you are the less likely to get a nomination.Adjudications It s a process shrouded in secrecy. How much objective is the process? And the adjudicators themselves do they have the flair, the skill or the art to be objective and all round looking in a field of many economic actors. Who they choose as winners is based on facts, hearsay, sensationalised data, or is urged to make winners for strategic purposes. At times you see some economic actors in wrong categories all together. There is confusion in classifying nominees.With some criteria it reduces the nominated ones to begging to win the accolades.Do you need the awards? Rewarding business or any industry for that matter is necessary and is marketing for all stakeholders. It gauges players against themselves on the economic landscape. It s a morale booster so whether there are errors or not in selection process there has to be a winner and you can t fault awards on that. The laws of equilibrium say that it could either work in your favor or not .This is a game of chance just like the business that is being undertaken is a game of chance too. It s the necessary evil and business needs recognition on the grand scheme of things.To business people continue doing what you are doing and those awarding accolades do not be deterred as business needs it despite inherent inefficiencies that might arise. Congratulate the winners and uplift the losers because the race is binary in nature, that is, losers or winners.If as business you feel hard done at least your figures would compensate you fully as these never lie. Remember at times you get no reward for unprecedented excellence. Life wasn t meant to be fair at all. And to those awarding accolades continue to reduce the margins of error and strive for near perfection. Business awards are for recruitment and retention, marketing and promotion, benchmarking with the competition, morale booster, and engage industry experts and contacts. Above all having a good time isn t bad given the economic challenges for business as at current. Therefore solve the polynomial equation for awards. Award = 30 percent actual performance +20 percent lies + 20 percent noise + 10 percent human error + 10 percent fund raising + 10 percent unknown factors. Discuss [100 marks].IF YOU LIVE IN BYO PLEASE CONSERVE WATER. IF YOU LIVE IN ZIMBABWE PLEASE USE ELECTRICITY SPARINGLY: SOS (SWITCH OFF SWITCHES). IF YOU LIVE ON PLANET EARTH PLEASE PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT Morris Mpala is the managing director of MoB Capital Limited, a Bulawayo-headquartered micro-finance institution with footprint across the country.