Prof Welshman NcubeNqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent MDC president Professor Welshman Ncube has been castigated for allegedly assaulting his wife with gender activists, saying domestic violence should not be tolerated in the country regardless of who commits it. Prof Ncube (56), a lawyer, allegedly assaulted his wife Ms Minenhle Gumede (33) on July 14 this year.The matter was reported to Hillside Police Station where a docket under CR42/07/17 was opened against Prof Ncube.However, Ms Gumede later withdrew the court case.Gender activists yesterday said violence against women should not be condoned and those who aspire to be national leaders should lead by example in the fight against it.Chairperson of Anti-Domestic Violence Council Mrs Eunice Njovana said her wish was to see a domestic violence free society with national leaders spearheading the fight to end spouse bashing. Domestic violence should never be accepted but national leaders have a bigger burden to prevent it, never mind being part of it, said Mrs Njovana.She said dependency of women on men was escalating the domestic violence cases as most of them withdrew cases after being violated. Sometimes women have to trade off their rights for survival. But I think it s our responsibility to ensure we support women who find themselves in these situations and empower them not to drop cases, she said.Local gender activist Ms Lindiwe Ndebele said more was expected from Prof Ncube as a legal expert. Domestic violence is domestic violence. It doesn t matter who has done it. Whether one is a national leader or not when you commit domestic violence it becomes the same. And indeed when one is a national leader we expect them to be role models. More so, he is a lawyer we expect him to uphold the values of society and the law itself, said Ms Ndebele.She said Ms Gumede should not be blamed for withdrawing the domestic violence charge against Prof Ncube. I can t blame women for withdrawing cases. We should look at it from a socio-economic view. Whoever was assaulted by Welshman Ncube is being asked, what happened? What do you think? Don t you think? And at the end of the day she would be forced to withdraw because of societal pressures? Ms Ndebele said. Most women are not economically independent and a majority of men are bread winners. Property is registered in the man s name. If they think of moving out, where will they go with the kids? Society will remind you of such things. Although withdrawing of cases is bad we should take a broader look into the issue. Parliamentary portfolio chairperson for Women Affairs, Gender and Community Development, Cde Beatrice Nyamupinga, weighed in saying families should seek progressive ways of dealing with domestic disputes instead of resorting to violence. Political leader or not, it s not acceptable that women are being assaulted. They are so many ways that people can resolve their issues amicably. There should be no discrimination in terms of gender whether you are a politician, have a good job, financially stable or very poor. Gender based violence is not acceptable, said Cde Nyamupinga.She concurred with others saying men s financial stability was giving them an edge over women.Cde Nyamupinga said women were suffering in silence as they have to consider the welfare of the family instead of their individual security.Enkundleni/Padare s Men s Forum Bulawayo programmes officer Mr Ziphongezipho Ndebele could not be drawn into commenting on the matter.Mr Ndebele said it was going to be easier for him to comment if Prof Ncube s side of the story was also known.But a male social commentator who declined to be named said although violence against women was unacceptable, society should not be too quick to judge Prof Ncube. We were all not there. We don t know the circumstances. Why would the woman withdraw the case? Was she not trying to fix him? Men are also victims in these gender based violence cases. But women are always playing the victim card. So many men are suffering in silence, he said.@nqotshili