Retirement from formal employment used to be a moment every worker looked forward to. After toiling for their more active lives, employees could not wait for the lump sum payment that came with reaching pensionable age and the rest that followed. It indeed was a crowning moment for a worker, a huge achievement which they took with much pride.The lump sum payment was a decent sum of money that transformed lives. The monthly pension payments that followed were decent too, more than enough for the pensioner, his spouse and a few grandchildren to buy food, clothes and other needs, generally to live comfortably.All that ended around 2004 when the sanctions-induced economic challenges started taking hold. Then, the prospect of retirement had become a cause for apprehension. Those who had to leave on reaching mandatory retirement age between 2004 and 2009 had their lump sum payments promptly eroded by hyper-inflation, the same for the monthly emoluments.Leaving a job meant one was condemned to poverty as the payments became worthless as soon as they were disbursed. To make ends meet many took up new jobs yet they would have reached their mid-60s and genuinely needed to rest and enjoy the fruits of their protracted labour into the sunset of their lives.The situation changed for the better when the Government introduced the multiple foreign currency system in 2009. The money could buy a few things for those who got it.But as the economic challenges are persisting, pensioners, like the average worker are facing challenges with small monthly pension payments and salaries that can barely see one through the month. That the National Social Security Authority (NSSA) is paying pensioners as little as $60 is ample evidence of the tough lives many of our seniors are going through.The Government is quite aware of this and has, from time to time, expressed its commitment to increase the monthly payments as well as creating conditions for better lives for the general public.As we report elsewhere in this edition, the Minister of Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Prisca Mupfumira has pledged to review upwards the monthly pension payments with effect from October 1. NSSA, said the minister will increase the payouts from $60 to $80 per month, with a commitment to further increase it to $100 by early 2018.She said the increment would be effected after completion of the biometric registration exercise of pensioners with nearly 153 000 beneficiaries having been captured so far. From October 1, pension payouts will be increased by about 30 percent, which will bring it to $80, she said. Our objective as Government is to have a liveable pension and to achieve that NSSA is having an actuarial evaluation and biometric registration programme. We expect them to have a clean database by September and the increment will be effected. After having a final position on the actuarial evaluation, we anticipate that by January 1, 2018 it will be raised to $100, but beginning October its definite there will be an increase. NSSA has presented that to the Ministry and we have consented. At $60 per month, the current payout is obviously small considering the high cost of living in the country. It doesn t make sense for a pensioner who lives outside cities and towns to pay bus fare into town to withdraw the payment. Therefore, many now spend some three or four months before they travel to their banks to get their monies.We acknowledge that the proposed increase of $20 is modest and that the review may not meet the expectations of some pensioners. Nonetheless, they will welcome it, aware that nowadays even an extra $1 can work for them.Our opinion is that the proposed increase, while modest, serves as a basis for more increases in the near future. Already, the Government is struggling to pay, not only pension payouts, but also salaries for workers still in service. For this reason, salaries are being delayed here and there, the same for pension payments. Authorities must have noted that available resources are still limited to permit higher payouts, hence the $20 award.Pensioners are encouraged to be patient for a bit longer as the economy continues to improve. There obviously will come a time when the situation will normalise and NSSA will be able to pay more. We are hopeful that the further review that Minister Mupfumira has pledged for early next year will materialise on time.