Norman MapezaPaul Mundandi in Zvishavane FC Platinum 3-1 Dynamos FC Platinum made a huge statement in their quest to win a maiden Castle Lager Premiership title, showing great character to come from behind to beat serial champions Dynamos, in a thriller at Mandava yesterday.Norman Mapeza and his men completed a double over the Glamour Boys after beating DeMbare in the reverse encounter in the capital.The game turned on its head with just four minutes of regulation time left when Rodwell Chinyengetere headed the hosts into the lead.Then, former DeMbare star Brett Amidu sealed the points for FC Platinum in the 90th minute.Kelvin Moyo had headed an equaliser for the hosts in the 34th minute while Tawanda Macheke had thrust DeMbare into the lead after eight minutes. Amidu did not celebrate his goal. I was at Dynamos. They nurtured me and I felt that it was not good for me to celebrate the goal. It was a good strike yes, but remember I was playing for Dynamos, he said. There were fans who travelled and I did not want to hurt their feelings further. I am a football player and one day I might find myself playing for Dynamos. It was good that I scored and I hope to continue scoring. It was also good that I played the full match and I hope to keep working hard to command a place because there is competition at Platinum. The acquisition of Mkokheli Dube, Takesure Chinyama and Ali Sadiki appears to have given Mapeza the experience his side need.Some journalists had mocked FC Platinum as an Old People s Home but, on the account of what unfolded yesterday, they could be proved wrong. I am happy with the way the new signings acquitted themselves. I urge fans to support them because they need time and also the fans must not whistle when we make substitutions, said Mapeza. When we pulled out Sadiki it was because he was suffering from cramps. When we are on the technical bench we will be communicating with these players. It was a good start for the second half of the season for us and a good game of football. I said we want to start the season on a high note and I hope that we will continue with the good form as well as working hard. Since Mapeza took over Dynamos have been finding it difficult to beat the platinum miners.The hosts were missing the services of Simon Shoko, William Sitima, and Agrippa Murimba through injury.FC Platinum president George Mawere believes it s about time his side won the league championship.Back in 2011, the Zvishavane miners missed the big prize after losing to DeMbare 0-1 in the penultimate match of the championship race at Mandava.Teams FC Platinum: P Mhari, R Muduviwa, I Nekati, K Moyo, E Moyo, W Mhango, R Chinyengetere, B Amidu, A Sadiki (T Chinyama 71st min), C Sibanda (G Mbweti 84th min), M Dube (M Mudehwe 92nd min)Dynamos: T Mateyaunga, P Makaha, C Rusere, L Zvasiya, O Mwerahari, T Chipunza, G Saunyama, C Kapupurika (T Sadiki 66th min), D Mukamba (V Ndaba 82nd min),T Macheke, E Mandiranga (M Mambare 56th min)