Vice President MnangagwaWalter Nyamukondiwa in Lions Den VICE President Emmerson Mnangagwa has urged Zimbabweans not to be distracted by the vilification of Government s initiatives to revive the agriculture sector in the private media as the bumper harvest was visible for everyone to see. Speaking during a tour of the Grain Marketing Board Lion s Den depot, VP Mnangagwa said while others had chosen to call the highly successful Command Agriculture programme Command Ugly-Culture, President Mugabe was happy with the bumper harvest. Ignore what s written in the papers, they are just out to make profit. The maize is there in the fields, regardless of what they write, said VP Mnangagwa.He said people should work together.The remarks appeared directed at Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Development Minister Professor Jonathan Moyo who has religiously condemned the programme. The President is happy. Some said Command Ugly-Culture, President said Beautiful culture. So let s continue working together as one family, said VP Mnangagwa.He said people should sit down to find solutions to common challenges.This comes amid indications the country is set to surpass previous deliveries following overwhelming support of the Command Agriculture, Presidential Inputs Scheme and individual effort.The country expects over three million tonnes of grain.Figures so far show that Lion s Den depot alone is 2 000 metric tonnes shy of filling the ninth silo out of 29 at the initial stages of grain deliveries. Don t worry about being criticised. The more we are criticised the harder we will work. We pray God gives us more rains. He said an aerial view of parts of Mashonaland West Province showed that the bulk of the grain was yet to be harvested.Makonde district Agritex extension officer Mrs Jesilina Katanda told VP Mnangagwa challenges faced by farmers included shortage of combine harvesters with only 25 throughout the district.This has affected the winter wheat crop as most of the maize is still in the field.Meanwhile, Information, Media and Broadcasting Services Minister Dr Christopher Mushohwe yesterday also castigated individuals speaking ill of Command Agriculture.Minister Mushohwe said mere talking without evidence remained empty talk and should be treated as such.He said this on the sidelines of his tour of Univern Enterprises premises in Harare.Univern Enterprises, which also trades as Southern Region Trading Company, is working with the police to develop a computerised traffic system to monitor all activities at roadblocks on real time basis. People are entitled to their views but if you talk about something that you cannot prove then it means it is just empty talk, he said. People have got the constitutional right to express their views, to vent their anger on certain things or even their perception but a perception which is not a fact remains a perception. If indeed people think that there is corruption in Command Agriculture let that be proved. This is why I am talking about the police. Let that be reported to the police so that the law can take its course. 