Charity Ruzvidzo HEALTH experts have urged Zimbabweans to embrace the food fortification policy which is aimed at curbing diseases related to lack of micro-nutrients. This follows fears from some sectors of the economy that the policy will incite a rise in food prices.Minister of Health and Child Care Dr David Parirenyatwa has however, dispelled the fears pointing out that the cost of food fortification is miniscule ranging from $3,50 to $4,50 per metric tonne, which translates to just about 5c per 10 kg bag of mealie meal, hence the cost is a minimal amount.Dr Parirenyatwa directed millers and food processors to start fortification for maize meal, wheat flour, cooking oil and sugar by July 1.This process involves the addition of vitamins and mineral foods to address the problem of micro-nutrient deficiencies in the population.Micro-nutrients are vitamins and minerals such as folic acid, Vitamin A, iron, iodine and zinc required by the body in small amounts to function properly.Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights (ZADHR) board member Dr Evans Masitara said food fortification will immensely contribute in the fight against malnutrition. Malnutrition is still very high in rural areas and most settlement areas. Fortifying food will add needed nutrients to end the disease, he said.Dr Masitara said people should focus more on the benefits brought about by fortifying food. Food fortification is a very good idea with health benefits for most women and children who are usually affected by malnutrition. The process may face a slight challenge when it comes to imported food items and fortifying them. However, this still does not change the fact that it s a noble idea, he said.Mr Richard Sibanda, a medical practitioner, said people should not fear embracing programmes that promote good health. Adding nutrients to food during its processing and manufacturing stages makes it more convenient for many people who cannot afford to get the required nutrients elsewhere. People must embrace this programme as it is aimed at promoting health in the country, he said.Mr Sibanda said lack of micro-nutrients may have negative effects on the body s functionality. A nutritional deficiency occurs when the body doesn t absorb the necessary amount of nutrients. Deficiencies can lead to a variety of health problems. These can include problems of digestion, skin problems, stunted or defective bone growth, malnutrition, low birth weights and even dementia, he said.Mr Sibanda said the body requires many different vitamins and minerals that are crucial for both development and prevention of diseases. These vitamins and minerals are often referred to as micro-nutrients. They aren t produced naturally in the body, so you have to get them from your diet. Community Working Group on Health (CWGH) executive director, Mr Itai Rusike, said fortifying food was plausible but the government must teach members of the public the benefits of the policy. Food fortification is not a new phenomenon. For years we have all benefited from iodine in our salt. It is important to give the general public more information on how fortification promotes health, prevents diseases and if it has any cost implications, said Mr Rusike.He said the food fortification process should include wider stakeholder consultations and engagement. The benefits of fortifying food should be clearly spelt out for both food producers and the consumer. It should also take into account the cross cutting nature of public health by involving other government sectors such as agriculture, said Mr Rusike.According to the Zimbabwe Demographic Health Survey 2011 and the micro-nutrient survey of 2012, many Zimbabweans especially children and women suffer from micro-nutrient deficiencies.It shows that 19 percent of children between the ages of six to 59 months have iron deficiency while 31 percent are anemic. Additionally, 26 percent of women between the ages of 15 to 49 are anemic.Anemia causes debilitating fatigue which reduces productivity. Anemia in children limits their cognitive development which in turn hinders their future earnings potential.A typical Zimbabwean diet is deeply deficient in micro-nutrients with an average intake of iron, zinc, folate, vitamin B12 and vitamin A ranging from 27 to 64 percent of World Health Organisation (WHO) Recommended Nutrition Intake (RNI) for women and children.While significant progress has been made in reducing the prevalence of iodine and vitamin A deficiencies, there has been limited success in reducing the burden of the iron deficiency, anemia, and other micronutrient deficiencies.In an effort to curb the lack of micro nutrients, the government launched the Zimbabwe National Food Fortification Strategy 2014 to 2018.It is aligned to the National Food and Nutrition Strategy for Zimbabwe.This serves as a guide at both policy and implementation levels to prevent micro-nutrient deficiencies.Furthermore, nine local companies which include National Foods, Zim Source Foods, Grain Marketing Board, Mega Foods, Tongatt Hulett, Blue Ribbon, Parrogate, Gutsamhuri and UniFoods have indicated readiness to start fortification.Sugar will be fortified with vitamin A; cooking oil with vitamin A and D; and wheat flour and maize meal with vitamin A, B1, B2, B3, B6, B12, folic acid, iron and zinc.However, the policy is facing resistance from grain millers who are citing high costs in purchasing the necessary machinery to enable fortification.Despite this, Dr Parirenyatwa has stressed the need to fortify food to boost the country s health system. &#8211; Zimpapers Syndication.