Bongani Ndlovu/Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondents ZIMPAPERS Live streaming of the Bulawayo Arts Awards attracted a record 130 000 views in four hours as the media group moves to bolster its market share in the digital media sphere. The awards were live streamed on The Chronicle website and the publication s Facebook page Chronicle Zimbabwe last Friday night, for an uninterrupted four hour period.While 130 000 reached the live stream, 30 000 watched it for the whole period.Zimpapers acting head of digital services Mr Godfrey Koti said the live streaming is in line with the company s policy to have a global reach.Mr Koti, who also doubled up as a presenter during the awards ceremony, said the future of the company is in its ability to penetrate the social media market and the awards set a good target for Zimpapers digital thrust. The attention to social media is also recognition of trends that are ongoing in the world. So our focus is to keep engaging in delivering content to all the people in all parts of the world. Some of the viewers were as far away as America, the United Kingdom and South Africa among other countries, he said.Mr Koti said through live streaming, Zimbabweans abroad were able to get real time content on developments in the country. We were overwhelmed by the response. A reach of 130 000 people on a four hour broadcast is not a small achievement. We had plans of having people watching but we did not expect so many people to follow and let alone engage and tell us what they think and be part of the show, he said.The Bulawayo digital team consisting of Online Editor Stanford Chiwanga, Social Media Editor Vusumuzi Dube and Online News Editor Temba Dube were also credited for their role in producing the content.Zimpapers General Manager for Digital and Publishing Mr Marks Shayamano said digital content was an in thing and the company would continue providing its customers media products they want. The media industry is now going digital and as a company we don t need to be caught napping. Zimpapers has been a trendsetter in the media and live streaming the awards gave us an opportunity to prove to our potential clients that we strive to provide a world class service, he said.Mr Shayamano said the future of revenue generation in the media sector is through digital content.Readers commended The Chronicle for live streaming the awards.Becky Allen: Didn t expect to watch such a wonderful Show from my hometown&#8230;&#8230; Siyabonga Zimpapers digital and Ingwebu. And the organisers. You just &#8230;&#8230;..up&#8230;&#8230;There !!!! Herbert Sibanda: Thanks The Chronicle. Job well-done. Okuhle kuyabukwa. Noma Nkwali Gagisa: Siyabonga watched from Germany picture and sound quality all on point. Evidence Tee: Bulawayo rocks, the people have spoken, Chronicle has blessed us, all we want now is our own TV station to showcase our talent. Nqobindabayokufa Siwela: Okuhle kuyabukwa I have got No words but to say thank u Chronicle and Metro FM indid wht u talk it s what u do so let s walk the talk and talk the walk well done bathi khuluma usenza do not just talk you have shown people that Yes it can be done well done guys. Thulisile Sibanda based in Namibia said the awards made her homesick.