Pamela Shumba, Senior Reporter MATABELELAND North provincial administrator Ms Latiso Dlamini has implored the Government to prioritise the construction of schools in Tsholotsho to cater for children who were affected by floods who are crowded at Tshino Primary School following the relocation of villagers. A total of 371 families, 54 percent of them being children, were last month relocated from Sipepa transit camp after being displaced by floods.They have since been allocated new stands at Tshino and Sawudweni villages with the Government expected to build homesteads for them.Speaking during the launch of the national identification programme by Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko on Monday, Ms Dlamini said enrolment at Tshino Primary School had risen from 500 to 900, a number too big for the school. We re excited that the families have been moved from the transit camp to the new villages and we re grateful to Government for making this possible. This is a proposal we made years ago. We, however still have a mammoth task before us to build homesteads for these people. They are currently using tents for shelter. Another challenge we re facing is that the enrolment at Tshino Primary School increased from 500 to 900. The school unfortunately cannot accommodate this number due to inadequate infrastructure and facilities. Some of the children are using tents as classrooms, said Ms Dlamini.She said it was important for the Government to prioritise the construction of schools to accommodate the children and create a conducive environment for them and their teachers.Ms Dlamini said the community also required a clinic, accessible roads and boreholes.The Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing Cde Saviour Kasukuwere said Government was already working on the required infrastructure. I m happy that we ve received a lot of support from China, Japan, India, Algeria, Botswana and Namibia to assist the flood victims. The financial support will go towards the construction project for the flood victims, said Minister Kasukuwere.He said local organisations such as CBZ, Glow Petroleum, Econet, Zimplats, the Diasporans and various non-governmental organisations have also made contributions to help affected people.Each family, according to Government, will have a three-roomed house, a granary and a kitchen as well as a toilet built for it. A total of 164 toilet pits have already been dug, lined and built up to slab level.@pamelashumba1