Black CoffeeShowbiz Reporter TOP South Africa DJ, Black Coffee, has been announced as one of the headline acts at this year s Victoria Falls Carnival taking place from December 29 to 31. Black Coffee, who appeals to a diverse audience, will be joined by electronic jazz group The Kiffness, Tresor the Never Let Me Go hit-maker from Congo and former Big Brother Africa housemate Zambian musician Mampi nicknamed The Vibrating Waist for her insane live performances.Neverland founder and master of mixing Jason Le Roux and local Vic Falls afro-fusion act Flying Bantu have also been given slots with more artistes set to be unveiled as the year progresses.The annual end of year shutdown fete starts with a series of parties at various venues in the resort town with the famous Party Train and Bush Party taking centre stage on December 30. The final party on New Year s Eve wraps things up with electrifying live performances at Victoria Falls Farm School.Emmanuel Tivatyi, the event s spokesperson, said tickets were now on sale. Prices have once again been reviewed to cater for the local market. A three-day festival ticket is being sold for $90, two-day ticket for $65 and a one-day ticket for the New Year s concert is going for $50, said Tivatyi.He said Black Coffee would perform on December 30 with only those with two-day or three-day passes/tickets set to gain entry into the show.However, the event, which has been named the Jameson Vic Falls Carnival for the past three editions because of the Irish whiskey maker s sponsorship, has reverted to its initial name Vic Falls Carnival, doing away with Jameson. This, Tivatyi said, was because Jameson wanted to push its sister brands like Ballantine s Scotch whiskey among others. Jameson is still fully involved in the carnival and they ve maintained the same sponsorship deal. The team just highlighted to us that they wanted to promote other products as well other than Jameson hence why the name Jameson has been removed from the name of the carnival, he said.Other sponsors who have come on board thus far are Delta Beverages through its Zambezi Lager beverage, SA s Trace Africa and tourism service providers, Wild Horizons, Love For Africa and Tourism Zimbabwe.Since inception as Falls Fest in 2009, the carnival has become the premier New Year s event in Southern Africa, attracting thousands of revellers from around the world. Besides the festival, the resort town of Victoria Falls has so much to offer as one of the best tourist destinations in the world. From adrenaline junkie thrills like bungee jumping and crocodile cage diving to the exploration of the rainforest, boat cruises on the Zambezi and game drives, visitors are guaranteed of an experience of a lifetime.