Zodwa Wabantu at Club Connect on SaturdayBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent SOUTH Africa socialite Zodwa Wabantu was on Saturday night overwhelmed by revellers at Bulawayo s Club Connect who packed the joint making it impossible for her to show off her famous dance moves on the dance floor. Zodwa Wabantu was in the city to party with fans.However, Club Connect proved too small for Zodwa Wabantu as it was hard for people to find space to dance and it would have caused a near stampede had she taken to the dance floor.As an appeasement, Zodwa Wabantu, who was clad in a figure hugging mini dress, left the VVIP booth she had reportedly booked for $2 500 and went to a VIP booth so that fans could get a close view of her. She was accompanied by her twin Trino Bambino (Trinity Sibanda) who was also dressed like her.And Zodwa Wabantu did not disappoint, as she raised her leg, further exposing her light skinned toned thunder thighs and did the Vosho. Inquisitive men who formed the bulk of her fans, whipped out their phones to capture the moment in case she was not wearing any panties. Zodwa Wabantu is notorious for dancing without panties at Eyadini in UMlazi, Durban, leaving men salivating.During her partying, the South African shed tears of joy saying she was overwhelmed by the response and love she received the moment she landed in the country.Watch VideoZodwa Wabantu said this made her feel special describing the experience as the best she has had in her short career as an entertainer. I ll be lying if I say that I ve seen this amount of people come and be with me. Yes I m famous. I get booked all over, but this is a first for me, said Zodwa Wabantu. I m so overwhelmed, I m so happy because what makes Zodwa is how the people respond to me. So they ve received me so well. Unlike other places where I m invited, the response from people is so cold even if I try to be nice. But here it s banging, it s packed and everyone went all out for me. Zodwa was in the VVIP alongside her twin Trino Bambina, her look alike brother actor Gringo (Lazarus Boora) and Babongile Sikhonjwa. They would often take pictures with each other while Zodwa Wabantu drank her Savanna and Gringo, who seemed to be in character by the way he was dressed, would drink Coca Cola even though there was an array of beverages at his disposal.The excitement began in the afternoon as soon as Zodwa Wabantu touched down at the Joshua Mqabuko Nkomo International Airport.She was met by an entourage of cars courtesy of the Toyota Altezza Club.Fans at the airport jostled to take numerous selfies with Zodwa Wabantu and posted them on various social media networks. Soon WhatsApp groups were filled with pictures of Zodwa and her Bulawayo fans.Thereafter she freshened up at a city hotel where she put on a sexy lacy dress that left not much to the imagination. She was then taken to Nkulumane 5 s Umqombothi Sports bar where she met with her fans for a braai.After visiting the joint, interacting with fans and taking pictures, Zodwa Wabantu went back to her hotel room and put on a figure hugging black mini dress revealing her famous thighs before she rocked Club Connect.It was here that Zodwa was overwhelmed and even shed a tear after she saw a packed nightclub and people chanting Zodwa Zodwa Zodwa! Fans started taking pictures and videos of her while cheering her and those in the front asked for a selfie with her and she obliged. The party went on until 6AM with DJs TBass, Kead Wikead and Crazy Black on the turn tables.