President MugabeWE once again applaud President Mugabe for reiterating the need for the ruling Zanu-PF party to unite and refrain from destructive and divisive tendencies centred around the emotive succession issue. Speaking at a Youth Interface rally attended by thousands of people in Chinhoyi on Saturday, the President underscored the need for the revolutionary party to close ranks and desist from engaging in factional politics as this has the tendency of undoing the good work the party has put into winning next year s harmonised elections.Cde Mugabe also berated senior party officials angling to succeed him, saying he was in good health and had no intention of relinquishing power anytime soon. The President has in the past admonished those with designs of occupying the highest office in the land by reminding them that Zanu-PF has a constitution and well laid out procedures for contesting for positions.As it is, there is no vacancy for the position of President as this can only be contested at Congress which is due in 2019. Zanu-PF is at its strongest at the moment as evidenced by the massive turnout at its rallies and party faithfuls need to work hard to maintain the current momentum ahead of the polls. The various wings of the party need to find ways of complementing each other and stop wasting time on scheming and trying to outmanoeuvre each other.Last Thursday, the President was very clear when he addressed the Zanu-PF Women s Assembly that people calling on him to step down despite the mandate he was given by the people were misguided as he never imposed himself in leadership positions since the time of the liberation struggle but was chosen by the people. Now listen to what some of the leaders are saying. They are saying the President must go. Who do they want to take over? We were never told that you are going to take over. The one to take over will have been voted in by the people, not the one who will have imposed himself. Candidates yes, when the time comes they can contest. Not to say I m next, No. It does not matter who you are. It is not within the principles of the party. It is disgraceful for one to say I m the one now, the President must go. You are the one by what virtue or principle. They are just beating their chest saying I am the one now. No we don t want that, Cde Mugabe said.He reiterated the same message when he addressed the Chinhoyi Interface rally, saying the state of his health surprises even his doctors and he was still fit to lead both Zanu-PF and the Government. There is an issue to say the President is going, I am not going; the President is dying, I am not dying, and I thank God for having lived to this day, he said. I thank God also for giving me good life. I will have an ailment here and there. I go to the doctors like everyone else; but body-wise, all my organs my heart, my liver very firm, very strong. Doctors were surprised that you have gone so strong, your bones, your system. I said it s God. But, of course, muscles and bones also must be assisted to be strong. For years, I have always exercised the body, from prison to this day. So, certainly the bones are bound to be strong. President Mugabe said he was aware that some people wanted his position, and also castigated those bringing tribal thinking to national politics. Some are divided tribally. Once you begin to talk like that, you are not going to be a uniting person at all. I don t have that kind of talk. I am happy; when I am in Matabeleland or in the Midlands or in Manicaland; I don t discriminate. Those in the Politburo, in Government should recognise that the principle that made us succeed was one of unity. Yes, there is the aspect of discipline and self-sacrifice; but underlying those ones is unity. Unity means we are together in mind, we are together in the way we operate in our positions. We are together in mind also means we should speak the same language. We should avoid speaking against each other. We commend the President for pronouncing himself well on issues affecting the ruling party and hope his wise words will not fall on deaf ears. Unity is key for the stability and prosperity of not only Zanu-PF but the entire nation since the party informs Government.The constant bickering and brawling is retrogressive and could derail the party s chances of increasing its majority in Parliament and handing President Mugabe a massive victory next year. We also urge those angling to take over from the President to desist from their machinations as there is no vacancy at State House.