Nation DubeGrace Chingoma, Harare Bureau Harare City 1-1 Hwange VISITORS Hwange were left fuming after a controversial penalty, awarded to hosts Harare City, resulted in a 10-minute stoppage of this Castle Lager Premiership match at Morris Depot.With the coalminers leading 1-0, and seemingly poised for a rare victory, referee Lawrence Zimondi awarded the Sunshine Boys a penalty kick in the 75th minute when he adjudged that a Hwange player had handled in the box.Chipangano remonstrated with the fourth official in protest causing the delay before they returned to take their positions on the pitch.Eventually Harare City took the spot kick and goalkeeper Maxwell Nyamupangedengu duly converted.Hwange had found the opener courtesy of a perfect header from forward Shephard Gadzikwa who did justice to a ball flighted from a corner by midfielder Admire Banda three minutes before the break.Hwange coach Nation Dube said they played the match under protest. One point away from home. It is okay. As for the penalty decision, the referee knows. I was just pushing my players to play. We asked the referees which one of the players handled in the box but they never told us. Our committee member is writing a letter of complaint. We played the game under protest, said DubeThe league match had to be moved at the last-minute as a Division One side, who are the ground owners, were having a match on Saturday.Harare City coach Philani Beefy Ncube was disappointed to see his rebuilding being derailed after a good run in which he had picked seven points in three consecutive games. Losing two points at home is a setback, we had so many chances but didn t take them. We were playing in phases, five minutes we are in and five we are out. Our conversion rate was not that positive. I cannot comment about referee s decisions but I think his decision was right, said Ncube.Indeed, the hosts had the upper hand in the game which they could have decided in the first stanza if attackers William Manondo and Martin Vengesayi had converted their chances.TeamsHarare City: M Nyamupangedengu, H Chapusha, R Uchena, T Chimwemwe, Mudzengerere, E Madhananga, T Samanja, K Kumwala (H Chimutimunzeve 46th min), M Vengesayi, W Manondo, J Chipangura (T Tumba 63rd min).Hwange: T Mvula, K Matake, G Ndlovu, O Moyo, A Chuma, M Mekiwa, A Banda, O Lungu, S Gadzikwa (J Kaunda 63rd min), G Zulu.