The late Lionel De NeckerRichard Muponde, Gwanda Correspondent FORMER Gwanda Mayor Councillor Lionel De Necker has died. He was 41.Clr De Necker died yesterday morning in Harare where he had gone to seek medical treatment for diabetes.The former mayor s uncle, Mr Stofel De Necker, confirmed his nephew s death. Yes he passed on. I heard the news this morning (yesterday). He died in Harare where he had gone to seek medical attention. For more information about the funeral processes, we are waiting for someone who is in South Africa. This is what I can say for now, he said.Gwanda Mayor Councillor Knowledge Ndlovu yesterday said he was saddened by the former mayor s death. It s sad. On behalf of the council we are very sorry for the sad loss of the former mayor. As council we will assist in whatever way possible because he is a person we once worked with. When it comes to these issues you don t look at political affiliation because as the people of Gwanda we are one family, said Clr Ndlovu.The Gwanda Residents Association said it received Clr De Necker s death with shock.It said the former mayor would be remembered for his selfless service to the people of Gwanda. De Necker was that councillor who believed in sacrificing for what he believed was in the best interests of his people. Clr De Necker may today rest peacefully knowing that during his term of office he led and left one of the best councils to emerge from Gwanda, a council which was free of corruption and ineptitude, said the residents association. Councillor De Necker shall for long remain in the memories of the people of Gwanda for several attributes top of which is being the youngest mayor in the history of the town assuming mayorship at 32. Clr De Necker came into office in 2008 on a ticket of the MDC led by Professor Welshman Ncube.In 2012, he was suspended by the then Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing, Cde Ignatius Chombo, for alleged insubordination and defying Ministerial orders.The former mayor, who was MDC national executive member, resigned from the troubled party in 2015.He resigned through a damning letter that also implored Professor Ncube to step down from the helm of the opposition party.@richardmuponde