Madlela Skhobokhobo receives his awardBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent The Bulawayo Arts Awards held at the weekend showed that the city is indeed the epicentre of arts and culture in Zimbabwe. From the fashion displayed on the red carpet, performances on stage and the general support of the awards, the event was touted by some as the best organised awards ceremony in the country.It was a multicultural gathering at the Large City Hall on Friday and people were in a celebratory mood. The sons and daughters of Bulawayo who are dotted around the country came back home and made the city proud by showcasing their talents.The opening act was gripping as an ensemble of Bulawayo artistes took to the stage and kept people glued. It showed the different facets that are in Bulawayo the traditional dances representing those who cherish their culture, contemporary pantsula dances representing the urban township youth and contemporary break dances representing the urban youth from the suburbs.The hype around the awards brought the city together for the first time in a long time. The awards, like the Kalawa Homecoming Party that happens in December, were on the tips of people s tongues as the city was gripped with excitement all throughout June. Ironically, the brains behind the Homecoming Party Oskido, who grew up in Luveve, was also honoured at the awards for promoting the country internationally.Madlela Skhobokhobo s performance of Ngamnanka uSaMamoe brought the house down as he celebrated his three awards in Outstanding Actor, Newcomer of the Year and Song of the Year.The awards represented Bulawayo as everything from sound and lighting equipment, entertainment, video equipment and food as well as drinks were from Bulawayo.Most interestingly was the turnout as people came in their numbers to support the arts industry. For years Bulawayo artistes have tried and failed to attract bumper crowds but on Friday the Large City Hall was packed to rafters.So gripping and exciting were the awards that people waited patiently until 1:30AM as there was no performance that was boring .Hosts Chief Koti, Sithandazile Dube and Charlene Mangweni did a splendid job on the mic.Zimpapers came in handy when ZBC pulled out as they live streamed the awards ceremony using Facebook Live on the Chronicle s Facebook page. Many from outside the country s borders made up the 25 000 viewers who watched the event live.Morris Touch, Bathabile Dlamini and Cde Fatso held the fort on the red carpet.Below is the full list of winners 1. Outstanding Actress (Schools) Anita Moyo (Eveline Girls)2. Outstanding Actor (Schools) Nobert Makoche (Gifford Boys)3. Outstanding Arts EducatorThabani H Moyo4. Outstanding School Arts Effort Mzilikazi High School5. Outstanding Visual Artist Israel Israel6. Outstanding Imbube Group/Act Nobuntu7. Outstanding Video Director Vusa Blaqs8. Outstanding Online Media House Urban Culxure9. Outstanding Arts Photographer Mgcini Nyoni10. Outstanding Comedian Ntando Van Moyo11. Outstanding Poet Tinashe Tafirenyika12. Outstanding Literary Work Mars, His Sword by Philani A. Nyoni13. Outstanding Arts Journalist Bruce Ndlovu of B-Metro14. Outstanding Media House Skyz Metro FM15. Outstanding Contemporary Dance Ensemble Inkululeko Yabatsha School of Arts (IYASA)16. Outstanding Traditional Dance Ensemble uMkhathi Theatre Works17. Outstanding Female Dancer Dadirai Mpandawana (Ezimnyama Dance Ensemble)18. Outstanding Male Dancer Mbongeni Nxumalo (IYASA)19. Outstanding Model Shadel Noble20.Outstanding Designer Dube Surprise &amp; Bukhosi Ndlovu aka Brandroom21. Outstanding Film Actress Donna Ncube aka Donna N The Lost Letter22. Outstanding Film Actor Mothusi Ndlovu aka Madlela23. Outstanding Film The Arthur Evans Show24. Outstanding Theatre Actress Tsitsi Gumbo uNtikolotshe25. Outstanding Theatre Actor Gift Chakuvinga Double Funeral26. Outstanding Theatre Production Joseph and the Coat of many Colours27. Outstanding Ambassador (RA) Oskido28. Outstanding Ambassador (RW) Mokoomba29. Outstanding Arts Supporter Delta Beverages30. Life Achievement Cont Mhlanga31. Outstanding DJ DJ Pathisani Star FM32. Outstanding Kwaito/House Mqondisi Sibanda aka Skaiva33. Outstanding Hip/Hop Artiste/Act Calvin Mgcini Nhliziyo (Cal-Vin)34. Outstanding Gospel Artiste/Act Lorraine Maplanka Stot35. Outstanding Alternative Music Jeys Marabini36. Outstanding Tshibilika/Rhumba Clement Magwaza37. Outstanding Newcomer of the YearMadlela Skhobokhobo38. Outstanding Female Artiste Sandra Ndebele39.Outstanding Male Artiste Mgcini Calvin Nhliziyo aka Cal -Vin40. Song of the Year Ngamnanka uSamaMoe by Madlela Skhobokhobo