Zodwa WabantuBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent SOUTH African socialite Zodwa Wabantu is expected in Bulawayo this afternoon and there is euphoria in the city as people are looking forward to dancing the night away with her at Club Connect. Some, however, are in the dark as to what Zodwa s claim to fame is as well as what she will be doing in Bulawayo as some have been made to confuse her for a stripper after being informed that she moves around without underwear because of her once-off Durban July outfit. That however, is untrue as she is an entertainer who enjoys dancing, often covering her private parts when doing so.Zodwa Wabantu s story is an interesting one as she is a person who rose to fame because of one dance routine the Vosho which she does well and an appearance at the Durban July where she turned heads after rocking up clad in a revealing outfit pantyless. As a result, she is now a most sought after entertainer.Her mission in Bulawayo is simple she is coming to party and has, according to her hosts Club Connect, paid $2, 500 for a VVIP booth where she wants to have a good time.Reports from South Africa suggest that Zodwa Wabantu s presence is just an added sauce or seasoning to the already delicious meal of partying to the break of dawn.According to South African media, Bulawayo party loving people must brace for a good night out because Zodwa really knows how to turn heads on dance floors. When the perfect song plays, she hits the dance floor and people watch in admiration, as she displays her best moves.She has been dubbed the new it socialite, who has to be on the guest list of every social event.This description gives revellers in Bulawayo a glimpse of what to expect tonight when they see Zodwa Wabantu partying.But Zodwa hits the dance floor only when it suits her, so it is up to the local DJs, TBass, Crazy Black and Kead Wikead to play tunes &#8211; preferably Afrotainment tracks &#8211; that will keep her on her feet all night long. This will give those who want to ogle at her watching in awe at those thunder thighs in action.Since Zodwa is not here for a show as she made it clear she was coming to Bulawayo to have a feel of the city s nightlife, people will have to keep their eyes glued to her $2 500 VIP booth or the dancefloor if she decides to go there.Then there s Trino Bambina, Zimbabwe s version of Zodwa Wabantu, who has also booked a VIP booth next to Zodwa s. Just like Zodwa, she has been enjoying the limelight with many endorsements coming her way.Revellers can expect the two to face off on the dance floor.Below are eight facts about Zodwa Wabantu compiled by All4Women.com1. She s a dancer. Dancing is Zodwa Wabantu s claim to fame and her craft has seen her become one of the most popular and renowned dancers in the country.2. She s well-known in celebrity circles. Zodwa works and dances for numerous celebrities, although her closest ties are with Durbanite DJ Tira.3. She s never shy about going nude. It s clear that Sis-Zodwa is not shy about her body. Perhaps she will give Skolopad a run for her money?4. She s a proud twerker. With moves like these, she could definitely take on some of the biggest twerkers in the country.5. She has international connections. Zodwa recently captured herself at the BBC Radio 1 xtra offices but she wouldn t say who she was accompanying.One thing is certain, she has an extremely strong network.6. She s a Manchester United fan. While she was in the UK, she paid a visit to the city of Manchester where she captured a picture of herself outside Old Trafford.7. She doesn t quite get along with Khanyi Mbau. Zodwa may have many celebrity friends, but one of them is not Khanyi Mbau. This comes after it was revealed that Zodwa had a thing with Khanyi s ex-boyfriend.8. She s a staunch feminist. While everyone was calling her dress sleazy or slamming her for showing too much skin, Zodwa Wabantu dedicated her controversial outfit to women everywhere.