President MugabeTHE African Union should wean itself of donor dependence and work towards self-sustenance if it is to fulfill the goals set by the founding fathers of the continental body when they formed the Organisation of African Unity in 1963. President Mugabe, who is among a rare breed of liberation era leaders with a grounding in the founding principles of the OAU, has led the way by championing home grown solutions to the multi-faceted problems bedevilling the continent. On Monday, he showed other African leaders that it is possible to raise funds locally and finance the AU from the resources of member countries when he donated $1 million with proceeds of a sale of cattle mobilised in Zimbabwe. In 2015, the President had pledged 300 cattle to capacitate the African Union Foundation during the official opening of the 29th Ordinary Session of the AU Heads of State and Government in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Presenting the donation, President Mugabe said he had received support from Zimbabweans to expand from the initial 300 cattle he had pledged to the foundation at a fundraising dinner on the margins of the 24th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the AU in Johannesburg, South Africa in 2015.The President said the 24th Assembly, which he presided over as chairperson of the continental body at the time, was dominated by the debate on alternative and innovative ways of financing the AU to which he pledged 300 head of cattle from his personal herd.He said as an African and farmer, a donation of cattle came naturally to him, given that our continent is rich in cattle and cattle are held as a store of wealth. When I returned to Zimbabwe and informed my party (Zanu-PF) and people of this pledge, they said to me, Comrade President this is a very innovative idea, for a very noble cause, and we would like to be a part of it. They therefore joined hands and mobilised more cattle, over and above my personal pledge, said President Mugabe.He said the AU Foundation Chief Executive, Mr Dumisani Mngadi, visited Zimbabwe in May and witnessed firsthand some of the cattle sales. I was most gratified that this noble cause had resonated well with my Party and people who made it possible for my initial pledge to be more than doubled, said President Mugabe. I am aware that this humble gesture on our part has no universal application but it demonstrates what is possible when we apply our minds to the most urgent task before us, of finding alternative and innovative ways of funding our Union in particular our Agenda 2063. As I have said before in this Assembly, unless and until we can fund our own programmes, the African Union will not be truly our own . We applaud the President for leading the way and showing other member states in the AU that it is possible to marshal resources and capacitate the continental body without the need for donor funding.The AU s dependence on donor funding compromises its independence and opens it to manipulation by powerful countries with vested interests in Africa.For years most of the AU s budgets and programmes have been financed by foreign donors, including the European Union, the United States, China, the World Bank and the United Kingdom. This is untenable because most of these donor countries are former colonial powers with historical interests in Africa. Most AU members are guilty of defaulting on their annual contributions and this negatively affects the bloc s accounts. We thus strongly urge the AU to take President Mugabe s gesture seriously and consider adopting the decision taken in Johannesburg to progressively increase members assessed contributions.The 24th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the AU in Johannesburg in 2015 proposed that in the next five years, the bloc should finance 100 percent of its operational budget, 75 percent of its programme budget and 25 percent of its peacekeeping budget. President Mugabe described this as the beginning of the restoration of our dignity and integrity as a continent and we totally agree with him. While it is never going to be easy for the continental body to wean itself from the donor dependence syndrome, there is a need to forge ahead with home grown solutions for the sake of the present and future generations. Addressing AU leaders on Monday, Cde Mugabe said his contribution was a symbolic step in that direction. And so today, as I honour the pledge I made almost a year and a half ago, I would like to challenge all of us here present, and the African Union Foundation for the development of this great continent of ours. Together let us build our continent brick by brick, stone by stone until we achieve the Africa we want as envisaged on our blueprint Agenda 2063. 