Former Miss Zimbabwe Anne Grace MutambuShowbiz Reporter THE Miss Zimbabwe Trust, organisers of the Miss World Zimbabwe beauty pageant, say they are impressed with results from auditions which they have just wrapped up and are now looking forward to the next stage, the models boot camp. Last week, the Trust was hard at work auditioning 75 models who came through to their offices in Harare to try their luck. Twenty two were shortlisted for boot camp which commences today.During boot camp, the 22 models will be joined by 12 others drawn from the Miss World Zimbabwe USA, Miss World Zimbabwe UK, Miss World Zimbabwe South Africa and Miss World Zimbabwe Canada pageants. The foreign-based Zimbabwean models are expected to arrive in the country on Saturday.Miss World Zimbabwe Trust spokesperson Tendai Chirau said they were happy with the progress made thus far and were now gearing up for the models boot camp. We re glad that the auditions went well. The ladies we shortlisted met our requirements and what s left is to groom them, said Chirau.Asked if the national pageant would not be a Harare affair considering that people interested in taking part were expected to travel to the capital for the auditions on their own account, Chirau said: Harare is a cosmopolitan city with many people residing and working here who are not necessarily from Harare. Some models came from as far as Gokwe and one from Cape Town with many others coming through from different parts. He said the boot camp, which will be at a Harare hotel, would see 18 unfortunate models, including those from the diaspora, being sent packing as only 16 models will take to the ramp at Borrowdale Brooke Racecourse come July 22. Those from the diaspora, Chirau said, will be sponsoring their travel to and from Zimbabwe and will have their accommodation and welfare catered for by organisers. But in the event that they are evicted, they will be expected to travel back to their countries in time as the Trust will not cater for them after they have been evicted.Asked if last year would not repeat itself, Chirau could not commit himself saying they would only know if the models are up to scratch during boot camp.Last year, the pageant had to be ditched after organisers highlighted that they did not have sufficient models who could take to the ramp as most failed to meet their requirements. In terms of physical appearance, we re happy with the quality of models we have, but we still need to work on their intellect and walk among other issues. This is the most challenging part so the boot camp will determine if the models have what it takes to be Miss World Zimbabwe. On the finale, Chirau said preparations were going on well adding that they were hoping to host a better event.He said they were still deliberating on the winner s prize as well as list of entertainers.