Miss World Zimbabwe finalistsBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent MISS World Zimbabwe will walk away with $20 000 and a car as part of her winning prizes with South Africa s Ringo Madlingozi set to serenade guests at the pageant taking place in Harare on Saturday. A bevy of 16 beauties will battle it out on the ramp at a ceremony that will be broadcast live on ZBCtv from the Borrowdale Brooke Golf Course, starting at 8:30PM.Miss Zimbabwe Trust spokesperson Tendai Chirau said they were happy they had secured sponsors for the models prizes with the first and second princesses set to receive $15 000 and $10 000 respectively.He said all was set for the big day adding that the stage, lights, marquee and sound will be provided by one of their sponsors whom they are keeping under wraps. Everything is set for the night with the prizes also being finalised. The queen will receive a car and $20 000, while the first princess will get $15 000 and the second princess $10 000. Miss Personality will receive $5 000, said Chirau.They however, will not get their prizes on Saturday as a prize giving ceremony will be arranged later. They ll receive their prizes on a date that we ll announce soon as we want to hand over the prizes through a prize giving ceremony. Apart from Ringo, more entertainment will be provided by Alick Macheso and his Orchestra Mberikwazvo band. ZBC newscaster, Rumbidzai Newsbae Takawira will be the host with more artistes set to be unveiled.Chirau said tickets costing $300 were flying off the shelves. We re expecting 400 guests and the show is getting oversubscribed. We might be forced to close the sale of tickets tomorrow (today) as a number of corporates and individuals sponsored the event through purchasing tables, said Chirau.He said the finalists were now finalising their acts ahead of Saturday.As part of their Beauty with a purpose project, the models donated washable sanitary pads to people in the rural area of Kanyemba in Mashonaland Central. The girls travelled to Kanyemba and donated washable sanitary pads to the Doma people. This was a bid to avert cervical cancer which affects most women in that area since some use cow dung and leaves for menstruation. He said the girl who would be crowned queen would continue doing the Beauty with a purpose project. The queen to be crowned on Saturday will continue spearheading projects to assist the Doma people in the area of sanitary wear. Apart from the donations we handed over, the trip was also an eye opener as we fine tuned the Beauty with a Purpose project. The trip also provided a platform for the aspiring queens to interact with marginalised groups from our country, making them all rounded Zimbabweans, not just urbanites. 