Nkosilathi Sibanda, Sports Correspondent FOR the first time, primary schools in Matabeleland South are set to compete in the game of tennis and rugby at this year s edition of the annual inter-district ball games meet at Plumtree High School. The three-day sporting fiesta is set to start on Wednesday.Eight district teams, Bulilima, Mangwe, Insiza, Umzingwane, Matobo, Beitbridge, Gwanda North and Gwanda South will battle for glory and the best players will be selected to represent the province at the national finals slated for 18 July.The games are run by the National Association of Primary schools Heads (Naph).Previously, tennis and rugby were seen as elite sports, with competition only limited to schools with well-kept facilities.Elton Sinyosi, the Matabeleland South Naph chairperson, said they are pleased that this year tennis and rugby have been introduced. The ball games are on at Plumtree High school starting from Wednesday to Friday next week. This year we are having a new format where districts will compete in tennis and rugby. This is a way of offering our talented children a chance to explore these games. In the past we only concentrated on football, netball, volleyball and other popular sports. This time we went a gear up and introduced tennis and rugby, said Sinyosi.He said the decision to host the games at Plumtree High was driven by the fact that the school has better sporting facilities to accommodate the newly introduced sport codes. We are going to select a provincial team from these teams that will go for inter-provincial competitions to be held in Masvingo from July 22-25 next week, said Sinyosi who is also Naph national sports and welfare chairperson.Over the years the level of competition in primary schools ball games dropped, a situation that has affected the way the province fairs in the nationals.Sinyosi said they are hoping this year teams will up their game. The best should come out of these games. Districts have been pressed upon to work hard and churn out talented players so that we go to the finals with a strong team, said Sinyosi who is also a Zimbabwe Football Association (Zifa) councillor.