Paul Mundandi in Zvishavane Shabanie Mine 1-0 How Mine SHABANIE Mine finally remembered how to win by silencing How Mine at Maglas yesterday.Dylan Chivandire s strike in the 48th minute made the difference.Collins Dhuwa, who had a quiet first half, came back from the breather a transformed man and was at the heart of the goal.He won the ball on the left and beat Toto Banda who was temporarily playing the right back role following the injury of Tsepo Ranthokoane.His pass fell to Chivandire who coolly controlled the ball and fired past a diving Tichaona Diya.Both teams were very cautious in the early stages of the match with How Mine showing some glimpses of life through Timothy January, Pasca Manhanga, Toto Banda, and Sakala Makundika .After the breather Shabanie were the better side with Admire Dzumbunu, Lloyd Nyamande and Nyasha Mpofu dictating the pace of the game and captain Samuel Mafukidze shining in goals for the home team.It was Kelvin Kaindu s first defeat at Maglas against Shabanie Mine. It was a difficult game for us as we failed to play our passing game after the breather. We lost concentration and they capitalised, said Kaindu. The league is, however, interesting and one game can make a difference. Currently Dynamos are the team of the moment. We are going to come back strong in the second half. I hope we will collect maximum points when we play our game in hand. Teams need to be reminded that our home record is excellent and most of them will be travelling to Bulawayo. His counterpart Takesure Chiragwi was happy with the three points. I am very happy with the three points. It s good to play entertaining football but at the end of the day it s results that count. Today we did not play our normal passing game but the guys did well. I am also not worried about relegation as yet because we still have a lot of games to play and our focus is on collecting as many points as we can and see what happens at the end of the season, said Chiragwi.Teams Shabanie Mine: S Mafukidze, W Mapfumo, N Mpofu, A Dzumbunu, L Nyamande, T Mavhunga, C Dhuwa, R Kanyenze (F Mupasiri 46th min), D Chivandire, T Chigede, F Muza (M Murimi 74th min)How Mine: M Diya, T Ranthokoane (P Tonha 50th min), M Ncube,K Chideu,F Makarati, M Sakala, T Banda(G Nguwodzawo 82nd min), P Manhanga, K Musharu,T January, T Makanda