Kiyapili Sibanda, Business Reporter THE Zimbabwe National Road Administration (Zinara) has disbursed $45.6 million to road authorities as at mid-June this year. Zinara entered into the Zimbabwean financial market seeking to raise short-term debt of $100 million by leveraging on 2017 disbursements.In an update on the emergency road rehabilitation programme issued yesterday, Zinara revealed that the first tranche of the infrastructure bond of $50 million has already been oversubscribed with $58.6 million already secured. The funding facility is complementing one of Zinara s key deliverables of disbursements to road authorities. Disbursements of funds to road authorities as at mid-June 2017 saw $45.6 million being disbursed, said Zinara.It said the emergency road rehabilitation works were divided into two phases although initially they were three. Phases two and three were merged into one. Phase one covers works of routine nature and focuses on preserving the current infrastructure to ensure roads are in a safe condition for travellers. Part of the scope of works includes rehabilitation of the drainage system, pothole patching, repairing and clearing of culverts and bridges, which resulted in ponding. Ponding is one of the principal causes of the rapid deterioration of the road network. These interventions have a budget allocation of $40.9 million, said Zinara. Phase two focuses on periodic maintenance works and includes rehabilitation of failed sections of the road network. Interventions under this phase include resealing, overlays, re-gravelling and reconstruction of cyclone damaged bridges that have remained impassable since year 2000. The budget is $60.2 million. The road administration company said following the incessant rains the country received during the 2016-2017 season, there was excessive damage to the road infrastructure network with some areas becoming inaccessible.The Government established the Emergency Road Rehabilitation Programme with the objective of restoring the road network.Zinara said the major highlight of this programme was that works were being implemented through an output based model and the road authorities were now benefiting from economies of scale through a centralised system of revenue collection of vehicle licensing fees. Payments are being done on actual certified works (ex-works) and drawn through submission of Interim Payment Certificates (IPCs). There are road authorities with few vehicles residing within their areas of jurisdiction and are now benefiting from economies of scale through a centralised system of revenue collection of vehicle licensing. This development has seen road authorities receiving more in terms of disbursements when compared to the decentralised system when they were collecting on their own, said Zinara.@Kiyaz_Cool