Business Reporter THE country s export promotion agency, ZimTrade, has called upon local horticultural firms and individual farmers to take advantage of the growing demand for sweet potatoes in the European Union (EU) to snap export earnings for the country. The EU accounts for the largest global imports of sweet potatoes with ZimTrade indicating that demand increased by 177,6 percent from $107 million in 2012 to $297 million last year. The huge demand for sweet potatoes in the EU market, which increased by 177,6 percent from $107 million in 2012 to $297 million in 2016 presents an opportunity for Zimbabwean companies in the horticulture sector, said ZimTrade.It said the United States of America was the major exporter of sweet potatoes to Europe accounting for 44,8 percent of total imports. The EU market accounted for 63 percent of global imports of sweet potatoes in 2015. In 2016, Egypt, Senegal and South Africa exported sweet potatoes to Europe worth $49 million, $4 million and $3 million respectively, said ZimTrade. According to Trademap, Zimbabwe has not recorded an export of sweet potatoes since 2012. The demand for sweet potatoes is driven largely by the medicinal qualities of the crop. According to Fresh Plaza publication of April 19, 2017, sweet potatoes are rich in nutrients and anti-oxidants, which are used in the prevention and treatment of more than 100 diseases, said ZimTrade. It said the versatility of the tubers also appeals to a wider market in Europe. Sweet potatoes can be roasted, pureed, steamed, baked, grilled or added to soups and stews.Meanwhile, ZimTrade encouraged exporters to pursue online and social media marketing as a key component of their retail strategy.According to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, small to medium enterprises run the risk of missing opportunities in both productivity and profitability by not engaging in e-commerce. A survey by the Centre for Retail Research revealed that e-commerce is the fastest growing retail market in Europe and North America. Online sales in the United Kingdom, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, Italy, Poland as well as Spain grew by 18,6 percent in 2015 and similar growth figures are expected for 2017. E-commerce and social media marketing offers opportunities for small to medium-sized exporters in Zimbabwe who may lack the capacity to sell directly to the global market. It suits those exporters who may not have the physical means in terms of retail outlets as well as those with a small promotional budget. Companies can also use it as a guerilla marketing strategy especially when targeting niches in sectors dominated by well established brands, it said. @okazunga