KwestaJOHANNESBURG Rapper Kwesta left with an armload of South African Music Awards (Sama) accolades on Saturday while Babes Wodumo left empty handed saying the awards were rigged. The 23rd edition of the SAMAs was held at the Sun City Superbowl in the North West.They were hosted by comedian Tumi Morake and choreographer Somizi Mhlongo.The night was a good one for Kwesta who walked away with five awards; it was a repeat of what happened at the Metro FM awards for Babes Wodumo.The rapper walked away with the following: Samro Highest Airplay of the Year, SAMPRA Highest Airplay of the Year, Best Rap Album, Best Male Artist of the Year and Best Album of the Year for his Dakar II album and hit single Ngud.Going into the awards Babes Wodumo was nominated in five categories namely Best Kwaito Album for her Gqom Queen Vol 1, Female Artiste of the Year, Best New comer and Record of the Year which was a public vote.However, Best Kwaito album accolade was taken by DJ Malinga s Goodwill album, Amanda Black beating her in two categories, Female Artiste of the Year and Best New comer. Record of the year was taken by Nasty C s Hell Naw.Even though the Gqom queen ended the show with an explosive performance, she promised that she will boycott awards if she went home with nothing.During a red carpet interview on Saturday night Babes reiterated her statements.Mampintsha uploaded an expletive ridden video on twitter to express his frustrations. F***k all this sh**t F**k! you re jealous, you re all jealous. How can a song trend the whole year, little kids were singing the song, even little white kids! Then you as a board decide that this is the song that won and Babes doesn t win. Babes always doesn t win because you guys are jealous, you re jealous. A visibly upset Mampintsha charges.Babes also took to social media to speak her mind.Babes went on to say that it was clear that awards are bought here in South Africa . The singer however let it be known that despite her lack of awards she s still booking gigs. I was even nominated for the BET s overseas but I don t get even one award at home? There is no such thing, please don t play with us. Continue to buy your awards. Continue and feel free, because we re not going to go hungry, we re getting booked. I will always be Babes and Mampintsha will always be Mampintsha and West Ink will always be West Ink. Thank you Times Live&nbsp;