Showbiz Reporter AFTER going around with a begging bowl with a movement, #HifaMustHappen, the Harare Festival of the Arts (Hifa) has finally garnered enough money and resources and the show is going on. The acclaimed festival roars into life today and will end on Sunday. It is being held under the theme: Staging an intervention. Last year, organisers said the harsh economic climate had seen them shelving the festival, but this year, they decided to make it happen. Numerous local banks as well as well wishers came to the rescue.A programme of events was released last week and the event will be headlined by Oliver Mtukudzi and Winky D among other locals and international artistes.The weeklong fete will dish out the very best in music, visual art, comedy, new technology and craft.Bulawayo artistes are however sad that they had not been included at this year s festival. Artistes who have graced the Hifa stage include Djembe Monks, Clive Chigubhu, Siyaya Arts and Raisedon Baya who has had several of his plays showcased there. I know a lot including me that applied to be part of Hifa. However, the organisers didn t say anything with regards to whether or not we ll perform. We only got to know of our response when we saw the programme, where our names and groups were absent, said Nkululeko Nkala, popularly known as Khuliyo. Festivals don t give feed back as to why your act isn t on the programme. We just have to try again next year. The major highlight at Hifa today is the Davis Guzha play Lamentations. CABS Day takes over tomorrow where Canadian comic Dana Alexander will be one of the features of the day with acoustic lovers set to be serenaded by South Africa s Derek Gripper. On Thursday during the NMB Bank day, jazz vocalist from Italy Amanda e laBanda and Friends performs with a stellar group of Zimbabwean and Italian musicians.On Friday during the ZB Financial Holdings Day, Tuku, Winky D and friends will serenade attendees. Doc Vikela holds his one man show on Saturday during the Steward Bank Day with a local play Finding Temeraire also showcasing at the Reps Theatre.