Paul Mundandi in Mhondoro Ngezi Platinum 2-1 ZPC Kariba MIDFIELDER Walter Mukanga scored easily the fastest goal so far in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League when it took him just 23 seconds to find the target as Ngezi Platinum edged ZPC Kariba in a lively encounter at Baobab yesterday.Former Dynamos man Mukanga got to the end of a low cross from the left by Terrence Dzukamanja to side-foot the ball home with the goal catching the ZPC defence by surprise as it came before three quarters of the players on the pitch had even touched the ball.ZPC drew level in the 27th minute when Raphael Manuvire capitalised on a monumental Partson Jaure blunder but the home team made sure of the points and climbed into third place when Tichaona Mabvura grabbed the winner on the stroke of half-time.Dzukamanja capitalised to charge for the kill when Tawanda Nyamandwe lost his footing inside his own half and the Ngezi striker picked out Mukanga with a fine assist which left the latter with an easy task of slotting past the exposed Tendai Hove.ZPC Kariba then found their way back via a huge defensive error by Jaure who made a feeble back header intended for goalkeeper Takabva Mawaya but an alert Manuvire raced in to place the ball beyond the drawn out goalkeeper. A minute after ZPC Kariba had scored, Mukanga thought he had found his brace and Ngezi s second of the afternoon but the effort was ruled offside. Sunday Mhofu Chidzambwa must have been left disappointed with the manner in which his ZPC Kariba defended especially from the flanks where they were giving the hosts too much space.It was from the flank that Ngezi Platinum got their winner after man of the match Donald Spanner Teguru set up Mabvura with a cross to bury the ball home past Hove.Veteran left back Qadr Amin could also have had his name on the score sheet in the 78th minute when he was fed in the box by Liberty Chakoroma but he directed his effort to the skies with Hove at his mercy.With Teguru, Mabvura, Dzukamanja and Mukanga enjoying a good outing, it was Ngezi who had the better of the exchanges and their victory took them to just a point behind new leaders Black Rhinos after nine matches.Chidzambwa, who has built his teams around a philosophy of solid defending was disappointed with the manner in which they capitulated at Baobab. We did not come to the party. We lost concentration and conceded easy goals. I am disappointed and we need to go and start afresh. We need to go back to the drawing board. I was however not impressed by Ngezi conduct. Their bouncers manhandled my player Raphael (Manuvire) this is not football but what I can only say is their actions are barbaric, said a fuming Chidzambwa.His former player Ndiraya was in cloud nine after making it three out of three in his head to head clashes against his mentor. It is very difficult to beat a coach of Chidzambwa calibre. It was a very big battle and I am happy that I have won. The game was very tricky and I had to dig deep in my bag of tricks because playing against my mentor is not easy. He is experienced and has seen it all. I was happy by the application of my boys. This season is very difficult but we are going to fight very hard so that we remain on top. It s still early days yet but it looks as if it s a bit tricky for the big clubs, Ndiraya said.Ndiraya said their initial target was a top four finish. We have targets and our main target is to finish in the top four. As Ngezi we are not under pressure but we are going to keep fighting. We are here to fight for everything and I am also hoping that I will lay my hands on the gong, said Ndiraya.Teams:Ngezi Platinum: T Mawaya, Q Amin, T Dzukamanja, W Mukanga, L Chakoroma, E Tapera, K Murera, D Teguru (D Tavari 90th minute ),T Mabvura (K Bulaji 87thminute),G Murwira, P JaureZPC Kariba: T Hove, T Munyanduri, M Kunyarimwe, A Chivheya, T Nyamandwe, C Rukwanhi, N Tigere, R Manuvire, T Chamboko (T Mandizadza 77th ),D Chakupe, F Zvekumbawire