Jairos TaperaEddie Chikamhi, Harare Bureau Yadah Stars 0-1 Dynamos IT probably needed the country s biggest club to stop high-riding newboys Yadah Stars and give them a reality check on life in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer at the National Sports Stadium yesterday.After a storming start to their maiden season in the top-flight life Yadah had looked poised to continue with their fairy tale in which they had been unbeaten in five starts until Ocean Mushure s first half strike ended that streak. Six minutes before Mushure struck, Phakamani Dube s cross hung in the air for goalkeeper Tafadzwa Dube to rush in to punch the ball out of danger as Tawanda Macheke went for a free header.However, there was nothing that former Warriors goalkeeper Tafadzwa Dube could do to stop Mushure s expertly taken free-kick after DeMbare fullback Phakamani Dube was fouled wide on the right.The ex-DeMbare and CAPS United goalminder was deceived by the bounce after he anticipated a touch from either Mwerahari or Quality Kangadze who both went for the in-swinger but failed to make contact.Dube produced another top drawer save when he tipped Tawanda Macheke s bullet header over the crossbar from a pinpoint cross by the exciting Mukamba on the right flank 10 minutes after the interval.Mukamba s substitution however appeared to be ill-timed as DeMbare s pressure on the hosts eased up.On the other hand, Yadah coach Tapera s decision to bring in experienced Wellington Kamudyariwa and DeMbare junior product Leeroy Murape gave them more power going forward.DeMbare were literally under siege the last 30 minutes with sensational winger Leeroy Mavhunga causing trouble on the flanks.Yadah could have bagged the equaliser with the last piece of action but their skipper Brian Mapfumo somehow stood in the way when he blocked a goal-bound shot on the line after Moses Demera had headed down Kamudyariwa s high ball from a short corner.Yadah coach Tapera said it was disappointing that they lost but drew inspiration from his team s performances. I think we lost and it s in the name of the game. We have tasted a win, we tasted a draw and obviously today we tasted a defeat. It s important then for us to say this is the result that we have got and we move forward, said Tapera.Teams:Yadah: T. Dube, M. Diro, B. Chikwenya, R. Dongo, J. Dzingai, B. Mapfumo, T. Dzumbunu (W. Kamudyariwa, 45th min), J. Sibanda (M. Meleka, 76th min), L. Mavhunga, M. Musiyakuvi (L. Murape, 57th min), M. Demera.Dynamos: T. Mateyaunga, P. Dube, O. Mushure, L. Zvasiya, E. Muroiwa, O. Mwerahari, T. Chipunza, D. Mukamba (C. Kapupurika, 56th min), E. Mandiranga (P. Makaha, 90th min), Q. Kangadze (W. Mutasa, 76th min), T. Macheke.&nbsp;