Ariana GrandeUS pop star Ariana Grande says she is broken following the deadly terror attack at her concert at Manchester Arena on Monday night. Tweeted Grande around five hours following an explosion that killed at least 22 people, including children and injured more than 50 others: From the bottom of my heart, I m so so sorry. Police believe a lone suicide bomber was behind the atrocity.Earlier, a representative for Grande said in the immediate aftermath she was Okay .Grande, a 23-year-old born in Florida had already performed at concerts in Birmingham and Dublin as part of her European tour and was due to make two appearances at London s O2 venue tomorrow and Friday.Her music label, Universal Media Group said: We re deeply saddened to learn of tonight s devastating event in Manchester. Our thoughts and prayers are with all those affected by this tragedy. Witnesses reported hearing two loud bangs coming from near the arena s bars at about 10:35PM. A huge bomb-like bang went off that hugely panicked everyone and we were all trying to flee the arena, concertgoer Majid Khan (22), told the Press Association. It was one bang and essentially everyone from the other side of the arena where the bang was heard from suddenly came running towards us as they were trying to exit. Another concert-goer, Catherine Macfarlane, told Reuters: We were making our way out and when we were right by the door, there was a massive explosion and everybody was screaming. It was a huge explosion you could feel it in your chest. It was chaotic. Everybody was running and screaming and just trying to get out. Manchester Arena, the largest indoor arena in Europe, opened in 1995 and has a capacity for 21 000 people. It is a popular concert and sporting venue.Prime Minister Theresa May suspended election campaigning and said the Government was working to establish the full details of what is being treated by the police as an appalling terrorist attack. The incident is the most deadly terrorist incident in Britain since the London Underground bombings of July 7, 2005.Britain is on its second-highest alert level of severe meaning an attack by militants is considered highly likely. Telegraph