Minister Sithembiso NyoniSukulwenkosi Dube-Matutu, Plumtree Correspondent THE Minister of Small to Medium Enterprises and Cooperative Development Cde Sithembiso Nyoni has urged schools to teach entrepreneurship skills so that pupils are equipped with relevant skills on how to manage businesses. Addressing stakeholders during a visit to Plumtree, Cde Nyoni said acquiring relevant knowledge on how to operate a business was crucial to ensure the growth of SMEs which would in turn boost the nation s economy.She said pupils need to be educated on how to start and sustain their own businesses. One of the most crucial aspects to ensure growth of SMEs is education. People have to be trained on how to start businesses and the particular business they want to venture in. It will be ideal if these skills can be imparted as early as at school level. I would like to urge schools to teach entrepreneurship so that learners can be better placed when they leave school, she said.Cde Nyoni said it was important for graduates to be equipped with entrepreneurship skills as the employment sector cannot accommodate all students coming out of tertiary institutions. Right now formal employment can t be regarded as a reliable source of income. As a result Government is promoting self sustenance. People have to learn to start their own businesses and thereafter expand them. However this won t be possible without the right training and knowledge, she said.She urged SMEs to use centres that had been set up within their areas to upgrade their products in order to make them competitive.Cde Nyoni also urged Non-Governmental Organisations that were distributing resources for communities to start their own businesses to facilitate their training on how to sustain the businesses.She said other crucial aspects for the successful growth of businesses were the access to technology, selling points, enabling environment, infrastructure and linkages.Speaking during the same meeting Chamber of SMEs officer for Bulilima District, Mr Ephraim Ndlovu said members of the business community in his area do not have access to relevant information that could help them develop their operations. When business people are advised to register for loans or when funds are availed we don t get such information on time. As long as we are marginalised when it comes to accessing information then it will be difficult for our businesses to grow, he said. @DubeMatutu.&nbsp;