Minister Walter ChidhakwaPamela Shumba in St Petersburg, Russia ZIMBABWE is keen to learn from Russian diamond giant Alrosa as it seeks to take its diamond sector to higher levels and transform the country s economy, Mines and Mining Development Minister Walter Chidhakwa has said. Minister Chidhakwa said Alrosa, being one of the world s largest diamond producing companies, has a lot to offer in terms of advanced mining technology.Addressing journalists at Pulkovo International Airport in St Petersburg, Russia, ahead of the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, which begins here tomorrow, Minister Chidhakwa said Alrosa grew from small different mining companies to what it is today.Minister Chidhakwa is part of the delegation led by Vice President Phelekezela Mphoko that will attend the three-day indaba. This forum gives us an opportunity to relate to similar activities taking place here in Russia. Russia is the largest diamond producer in the world through Alrosa. We hope to learn how they grew from small scattered companies, which were later consolidated to become the Alrosa that we know today. We do share a lot during the Kimberly Process Certification (KPC) meetings and we believe that we can share much more on bilateral basis, said Minister Chidhakwa.He said the forum also presents an opportunity for the country to push the Great Dyke investment project, which was commissioned by President Mugabe and Russian ministers in Zimbabwe. Since they have finally submitted their feasibility study reports, we hope to move to the next stage which is mine development. We look forward to that discussion. We ll also have the opportunity of meeting some of the cooperating partners that we have worked with in gold exploration, he said.Minister Chidhakwa said Zimbabwe will establish new relationships particularly in the field of gas, with the hope of pursuing gas production in Matabeleland North province. We are aware that Russia has significant capabilities in the development of gas fields and we hope that during our visit here with VP Mphoko, some work will go into cultivating relationships with the Russians in that regard, said Cde Chidhakwa.Zimbabwe s mining sector, the Minister said, is also set to benefit from equipment supplied by Russia and other countries. We ll be looking at how suitable their equipment is for our development. However, we re not forgetting our local manufacturers back home. We re still keen to buy equipment and machinery from our local suppliers. We have a number of places in Bulawayo and other small cities where mining equipment is manufactured. It s in our interest to support these small-scale mining equipment manufactures. It builds the linkages with manufacturing sectors with other countries, said Minister Chidhakwa.Zimbabwe is richly endowed with mineral resources such as diamond, gold, platinum, tin, lithium, iron, coal, chrome, manganese and also methane gas.Russia has injected more than $53 million at the Darwendale platinum mining project, a joint venture between Moscow and Harare running as Great Dyke Investments.Zimbabwe and Russia commissioned the $3 billion platinum mining project on September 16, 2014. The project is expected to stimulate growth in various sectors of the economy.The Great Dyke investment is the biggest joint venture the Government has entered with a foreign investor since independence.The project, which would be implemented in phases, will create employment for thousands of people with nearly a million ounces of platinum expected to be produced annually.@pamelashumba1