ZIMBABWE Cricket (ZC) is in severe financial trouble, and the International Cricket Council (ICC) s offer to help the African nation has not gone down well with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), which is preparing to serve the global cricket body a legal notice asking how the previous governance models could be revised without prior approval of the BCCI. ZC voted in the favour of the new financial model after not casting their vote in the previous ICC meeting in February. Zimbabwe Cricket has been requesting ICC for assistance in dealing with its financial issues now for the past four years and, in fact, in 2013, you may be aware that a package was put together to assist the ZC to get out of its debt situation, an unnamed ICC source told the Times of India. So this is basically a continuation of that initiative. The request has been resurrected now. ZC is in discussions with the ICC to help them with their financial issues. I wouldn t say ICC has offered to wipe out Zimbabwe Cricket s debts. That s totally incorrect. But a package was put together to assist Zimbabwe cricket. This is a continuation of that package. Clearly not happy with the development, a senior BCCI official told the newspaper, And they want to take India s share and distribute it to countries (like Zimbabwe) for the game to prosper, clearly not knowing what is happening behind their backs. Meanwhile, the BCCI is preparing to serve a legal notice to the ICC. Signed by BCCI secretary Amitabh Choudhary, the letter states: At the meeting of the ICC Board held on April 26, 2017, the contribution costs payable to BCCI has been done away with and structurally all of the governance models as approved in the April 2014 ICC Board have been revised without the prior approval of the BCCI. It is causing material adverse effect on the BCCI and has resulted in material breach of the obligations and warranties of the ICC IBC under the MPA as the very basis of the representations and warranties based on which the MPA was executed stands altered to the prejudice of the BCCI. It is evident that the ICC IBC has breached the clauses 6.4 (a), (c), (d) and (e) affecting the BCCI s interests adversely. The MPA contemplates a curative period to cure breaches under the agreement. Hence the BCCI puts you on notice for these defaults under clause 6.4 (a), (c), (d) and (e) of the MPA to enable the ICC IBC to reverse its decision of 26th April 2017 within a period of 30 days from receipt of the notice failing which appropriate consequences will follow. Without prejudice, BCCI reserves all rights available to it under law. Meanwhile, ICC broadcaster Star Sports has expressed its concerns to the game s governing body over the possibility of India pulling out of next month s Champions Trophy and the impact on viewership and revenue. SportsCafe.