Business Reporter LOYAL readers of newspaper titles under the Zimbabwe Newspapers (1980) Ltd stable stand a chance to win a brand new vehicle in the OK Grand Challenge scheduled for Saturday the 3rd of June. The competing titles in this promotion are The Chronicle, The Sunday Mail, Sunday News, Manica Post and The Herald.Zimpapers public relations and corporate affairs manager Ms Beatrice Tonhodzayi said the promotion was an exciting way of rewarding loyal readers of the dominant media firm s newspaper titles while also building stronger partnerships with the business community, in this case the OK retail outlets. It is always exciting when we get the opportunity to give back to those who keep us in business. For our newspapers, what gives all of us the greatest satisfaction is seeing audiences buying and ultimately consuming the content that is in there, said Ms Tonhodzayi. The OK Grand Challenge is also a big activity that generates a lot of excitement and we are happy to be working alongside OK in this promotion. Those who buy the paper from participating OK retail outlets are automatically in the running to win an NP 300 come June 3. She advised readers to buy their papers daily to increase their chances in the promotion, which has been running from April 12.Senior circulation officer Mr Henry Diya said readers who buy any of the participating newspapers from OK outlets during this period will also have an opportunity to win instant prizes in the exciting Pop the Balloon competitions that are taking place in-store. We have been going round different OK outlets countrywide and it is exciting to interact with readers and reward them in small but fun ways. That way we get to hear their views about our products and our services. We call upon those who have not been buying the paper to do so daily and increase their chances of winning the vehicle, he said.The vehicle will be given away on the day of the Grand Challenge to the winning reader even if they are not on site at the Borrowdale race course. This means everyone stands an equal chance to win.Zimpapers is a fully integrated media institution with 11 newspaper titles, two radio stations, a video production house as well as a commercial printing division.