Mr Richard GundanePamela Shumba, Senior Reporter GOVERNMENT and civil servants representatives are expected to meet next week for talks aimed at improving working conditions and the general welfare of Government workers. The meeting will be held under the auspices of the National Joint Negotiating Council (NJNC) that brings together Government and the civil servants umbrella body the Apex Council.Apex Council treasurer Mr David Dzatsunga yesterday said members of different civil servants unions would bring pertinent issues to the NJNC. We re still putting together the agenda of the meeting, which will be held on May 21, 2017. We have urged our members to bring forward their concerns through their unions so that we present them to the Government during the meeting. We re hoping the Government will consider all our concerns and work towards improving the civil servants remuneration, the non-monetary benefits as well at the general welfare of the workers, said Mr Dzatsunga.Zimbabwe Teachers Association (Zimta) president Mr Richard Gundane said the issue of non-monetary benefits remains outstanding, with the Government expected to fulfil its promises. We re hopeful that the NJNC meeting will clarify how the civil servants welfare will be improved through various programmes. One of the non-monetary benefits we re looking forward to is the provision of housing stands. Other non-monetary benefits we re still expecting from Government also include exempting civil servants from paying duty when importing cars, said Mr Gundane.He said they will also push for the establishment of the Civil Service Bargaining Council. Leave conditions, vacation leave, and manpower development leave are some of the pending issues that need to be discussed. We took the issue of leave conditions to court but it s taking a long time for the matter to be determined. Concerning salaries, we need the Civil Service Bargaining Council, which can only be put in place if there is a provision in the Public Service Act. The most important issue that has to be addressed is the alignment of laws to the New Constitution, said Mr Gundane.Commenting on the challenges facing schools, Mr Gundane said most schools were failing to meet their financial obligations because parents were not paying school fees and levies. I would like to urge parents to pay school fees so that schools are able to provide the necessary resources for the teachers to do their job, especially at this time when the country is in the process of implementing the new curriculum. The financial challenges that schools are facing are a big threat to the implementation of the new curriculum. Everyone should therefore play their part, said Mr Gundane.@pamelashumba1