Wynne Zanamwe, Midlands Reporter A 69-YEAR-OLD man who broke into his neighbour s house thrice in Mberengwa and stole property worth over $600 has been sentenced to nine months in jail. Moses Francis Chirwa of Mbulali Village under Chief Mataga in Mberengwa pleaded guilty to unlawful entry and theft charges when he appeared before Mberengwa Magistrate Ms Evia Matura.The magistrate sentenced Chirwa, who has a previous conviction for theft, to nine months in prison. I had no such intentions, I guess I will be possessed by spirits since most of my relatives were killed whilst they were stealing. I plead with the court to be lenient with me since I m now an old man and I have eight grandchildren, he said.Prosecuting, Ms Wadzanai Shayanewako said on April 19, Chirwa went to Justice Shoko s homestead when his neighbour was away and broke into his bedroom. The accused person proceeded to the complainant s bedroom hut and gained entry. While inside the hut the accused person took two inverters, two blankets and several clothes before he went away. He sold the goods at Vutsanana Business centre in Mberengwa, said Ms Shayanewako.She said the value of the property that was stolen was $323 and everything was recovered. On April 20 at around 8PM the accused person went again to the complainant s homestead whilst he was away and broke into his bedroom hut.He took a 12 volts battery and a solar panel before he went away unnoticed. The total value of property stolen is $175 and all was recovered, said Ms Shayanewako.The court heard that on April 21 at around 9AM, Chirwa went to the complainant s homestead once more, while he was not at home. The accused person unlocked the complainant s bedroom hut without the authority of the complainant. On count six, whilst inside the bedroom hut the accused person took the complainant s trousers, jacket, and a pair of brown shoes and wore them, said Ms Shayanewako. The complainant was about 400m away from his homestead when he noticed an open door and went to find out what was happening. He found the accused person inside the hut, wearing his clothes that he had stolen and he effected a citizen arrest before he called the police to come and arrest him. The total value of stolen items is $642 and everything was recovered. @wynnezane.