Ricky Zililo Senior Sports Reporter Bantu Rovers 0-2 Harare CityHARARE City brought their four-match winless run to a halt as they registered their second victory of the season beating Bantu Rovers in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match played at Luveve Stadium yesterday. Second half goals by Martin Vengesayi and substitute Grey Kufandada were all City needed to secure maximum points.Vengesayi gave City the lead in the 58th minute after being set through by captain James Jam and the former hit a thunderous shot which beat Rovers keeper Stephen Chimusoro all systems out.Kufandada who replaced Vengesayi in the 85th minute put the game to bed three minutes after coming on with a fine strike that beat a diving Chimusoro. Kufandada was later booked for celebrating his goal by giving his team s supporters hugs.The victory saw City moving a place up the ladder from position 15 to 16, with 10 points from 11 games.City s gaffer Philani Beefy Ncube who was in charge of the club s second game after being appointed to the position of head coach on Wednesday was happy with the victory. It s work in progress. Today we played better than we did on Thursday against Dynamos where we lost 1-0. The first half we studied their play and at halftime we decided to play the ball behind their defenders and that worked perfectly for us. We will continue working hard in games to come, said Ncube.Rovers had their fair share of scoring opportunities from set pieces which they failed to utilise with their captain Bukhosi Zakhu Sibanda narrowly missing the target from four attempts.However, it was City who created better scoring opportunities and had it not been for some breathtaking saves by Rovers goalkeeper Chimusoro, the boys from the capital could have won the game by a wider margin.Rovers youngsters struggled to open up City s experienced midfield which had Tendai Samanja and James Jam.Rovers assistant coach Joseph Sibindi said their defence let them down. Defensively we didn t do well. They (City) had a strategy to play the ball beyond our backline which we failed to deal with. However, in terms of team play we did well and after the midweek 4-1 loss to Shabanie Mine I thought the boys confidence levels were going to drop but they just held on well. We hope to keep improving with every passing game, said Sibindi.TeamsBantu Rovers: Stephen Chimusoro, Kudzaishe Dzingwe, Fortune Sibanda, Shadreck Nyahwa, Dumisani Ndlovu, Munyaradzi Chitambwe, Lucky Ndlela, Bukhosi Sibanda, Michael Kutsanzira (McCarthy Dube, 61st minute), Brighton Ncube (Nyasha Garayi, 73rd minute), Newman SianchaliHarare City: Max Nyamupangedengu, Tafadzwa Chimwemwe, James Jam, Martin Vengesai (Grey Kufandada, 85th minute), Raymond Uchena, Pritchard Mphelele, Edwin Madhananga, Honey Chimutimunzeve (Jerry Chipangura, 79th minute), Tendai Samanja, Protasho Kabwe (William Manondo, 47th minute), Jimmy Tigere @ZililoR&nbsp;