Midlands Reporter A PROMINENT businessman and polygamist from Chirumanzu allegedly raped his wife s younger sister (18) twice, saying it was payment for looking after her since she would be married to another man in the end. A suicide note from the rape victim led to the arrest of Seviyasi Piki (46) after his two wives sisters to the complainant turned a blind eye to the alleged rape.Piki, also a well known Zanu-PF member with businesses dotted around Chirumhanzu appeared before Gweru regional magistrate Mr Morgan Nemadire facing two counts of rape.He pleaded not guilty and was remanded out of custody to May 10 on free bail.Prosecuting, Mr Lloyd Mavhiza told the court that on count one and in January 2015 the complainant was sent by her sister to clean her bedroom. As the complainant was cleaning, the accused person entered and locked the bedroom door. The accused person demanded sex from the complainant stating that she was using his money yet in the end she would be married to another man. The complainant refused the accused s request but he went on to mount her, forcibly remove her skin tight and panties while he was removing his own trousers, said Mr Mavhiza.He said Piki raped the complainant once before threatening to kill her if she ever told anyone. The complainant got dressed and went on to report the rape to her sister who is also Piki s wife but she did nothing about it, said Mr Mavhiza.He said on count two and in the same month, Piki instructed the complainant to accompany him to his plot in Mvuma with his two children. Upon arrival the accused person assigned his workers and children to his shop which is located 50 metres away from his homestead, said Mr Mavhiza.The court heard that the complainant remained behind and decided to take a bath in a bathtub. Piki returned home alone and found the complainant bathing. He went into the bathroom and lifted the complainant from the bathtub before he proceeded with her to the bedroom. The accused person who was already naked raped the complainant once, the court heard.Mr Mavhisa said the complainant reported the matter to her other sister, also married to Piki, but she allegedly assisted the complainant to cover up the matter.He said in April last year the complainant moved to Harare to stay with her other sister.Mr Mavhisa said the complainant started communicating with her boyfriend using her sister s land line before she was reprimanded for raising the phone bill. The sister called the complainant s boyfriend wanting him to explain what they would be talking about. The complainant s boyfriend then told her that they would be discussing her alleged rape by Piki, said Mr Mavhiza.He said the complaint was reprimanded by her sister before she attempted suicide. The court heard that the complainant wrote a suicide note highlighting the rape incidents at the hands of the accused person. A report was made to the police by her brother who came from South Africa leading to the arrest of Piki, said Mr Mavhiza.&nbsp;