Bongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent AS the sun sets in Bulawayo, residents of Nkulumane 5 suburb and surrounding areas have for the past week been puzzled by a searchlight/klieg light in the sky that leads people to Umqombothi Sports Bar. The searchlight, which was switched on last Sunday, is situated atop the popular nightspot and according to residents, can be seen piercing the night sky from as far off as Pumula South, Nketa, Old Magwegwe, Tshabalala, Sizinda and Pelandaba suburbs.Last year a similar light from Private Lounge in the city centre caused a stir as it left many astounded.A resident of Nkulumane 5 who only identified herself as Gogo maMoyo said she could not understand where the light was coming from. I had gone to get water from the outside tap and then when I looked up in the sky, I saw something moving. I was taken aback and couldn t make sense of what was going on. I called my grandchildren to see and they laughed at me and said it s a light from KoBullet at the top of Umqombothi Sports Bar, said Moyo.Daniel Dube from Pumula said the light had left him confused as he thought Private Lounge had moved to Nkulumane. When I m home, I usually see the Private Lounge light which has been off lately. So last week, I was surprised to see a similar light but from a different direction. For a moment I thought Private Lounge had come to the ghetto only to discover that it was for another bar, said Dube.Another resident, Cornelius Sibanda, said there has been an upsurge of visitors to their neighbourhood as people were following the light. There are people who aren t from this neighbourhood who come to the nightspot because of this light. Ever since the re-launch of the bar where opaque beer and meat was given away for free, we ve had a spike in the amount of people that come to our shops, said Sibanda.Umqombothi spokesperson, Zanele Moyo, said the light was in fact a harmless searchlight which they were using to market the spruced up venue. Internationally, night clubs will use a klieg light to market a venue. Its purpose is to direct those who ve never been to our place to easily locate us as all they need to do is look up and follow the light and before they know it, they ll be right by the door, said Moyo.&nbsp;