Nduduzo Tshuma Political Editor EMBATTLED National People s Party leader Dr Joice Mujuru has set up a team to deal with factional and tribal divisions that threaten to tear apart the party s Bulawayo province. The team, comprising her two deputies Dr Samuel Sipepa Nkomo and Mr John Shumba Mvundura and the party s chairperson Mr Dzikamai Mavhaire is expected in the city to try and bring together the warring factionsThe fighting in the party has taken a tribal twist.NPP spokesperson Mr Methuseli Moyo yesterday confirmed the matter but downplayed the extent of the fights. Yes the president did say she will be sending the two VPs and national chairman to Bulawayo to resolve the issue. I can t disclose more nor the date of their visit. However, the party has maintained its momentum in Bulawayo and the politics of Bulawayo will never be the same again once we negotiate this curve, which we are confident we will do. In the meantime, our structures throughout the country are getting ready to roll for our inaugural convention, which is around the corner, said Mr Moyo. The president is sending her two deputies and chairman to ensure that there is no outstanding issue as we go to the convention. Otherwise there is no big issue in Bulawayo. However, insiders said the province is divided along the supporters of Dr Sipepa Nkomo and Mr Cuthbert Ncube. Cracks emerged in March when the province was preparing for elections to select members of the national executive in which Ncube was contesting Nkomo for the post of vice president, said an insider.The source said after realising that other provinces were backing Dr Nkomo, a faction linked to Mr Ncube disrupted the electoral process leading to a postponement. A date was set for May to complete the elections and in those polls, the Ncube faction seconded him for a position in the province which was rejected by the people but he eventually won under Bulawayo East. This has caused a lot of problems in the party as alliances have now been formed along factional and tribal lines to the effect that there are no meetings conducted by the province any more. There is literally no activity in the party now. As a result of the fierce internal fights, sources said, a delegation visited Dr Mujuru to register fears that if nothing was done the structures would collapse. Mujuru then set up a team to attend to the problems in Bulawayo and there is speculation that the present structures might be dissolved, said the source.