&nbsp;Andile Tshuma, Chronicle Reporter RESIDENTS of Bulawayo s Sizinda suburb have held a campaign against ritual murders following the suspicious death of a mentally challenged man recently. Speaking at the anti-ritual murder awareness campaign attended by police, the business community and churches, Bulawayo residents association Sizinda branch chairperson Mrs Eva Bitu said the community had been shocked by the death of Elson Phiri.Phiri who was partially paralysed went missing on April 4 and his decomposing body was discovered almost three weeks later in a dam at Umguza with head injuries.Phiri, who was aged 28, could not travel on his own raising his family s suspicion that he was murdered.Mrs Bitu said Phiri had suffered a stroke at the age of two and had lived with physical and mental challenges since then. This is disheartening, how can people target our children and adults who are helpless and need our protection. Only an evil person can do harm to a physically and mentally challenged person like Elson was. It is unfair and the perpetrators should be brought to book, said Mrs Bitu.She urged communities to work with the police to fight crime in their areas.The patron of the campaign, Mr Sevina Ncube, said people who want to get rich quickly were fuelling ritual murders in society. We do not know where this evil culture is emanating from, but it is beginning to grip our communities. When we were growing up, communities were safe, united, and protective. It is now unsafe to entrust children in the care of a neighbour, or relative. People should work hard and not think that killing another person will make them rich, said Mr Ncube.Police officers from Tshabalala police station urged community members to come forward with information as it was the only way to get to the culprits. People should make use of our suggestion boxes situated in different areas around the suburbs. If one is not comfortable to come to the station and report, they can give an anonymous detailed tip off via our suggestion boxes. Police need to work together with the community so as to eradicate crime, said an officer stationed at Tshabalala police station.Phiri s aunt Ms Rebecca Phiri said they became worried the day he went missing as he was incapable of travelling by himself.She said some people in the suburb suggested that he was last seen with an unknown man who was driving a white vehicle. Others say he was seen walking with a man while others say he was seen in a white vehicle. So we assume the man he was last seen with could be responsible for his disappearance and death. He was partially paralysed so there is no way he could have made it to Umguza on his own, she said. @andile_tshuma&nbsp;