Pardon DubeMehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter ZIMBABWE S team to the Arnold Classic suffered yet another withdrawal with Pardon Dube unable to travel, as he will be writing his final year exams at the National University of Science and Technology (Nust). Dube, a final year Bachelor of Engineering degree student at Nust said he only discovered on Sunday that his examinations clash with the competition this Friday and had chosen to put his studies first, as there would be other opportunities to compete in the Arnold Classic in future. Dube had been selected to represent the country in the men s physique together with Simbarashe Mhaka. My exams start on 5 May, the same day as the men s physique. I only discovered on Sunday that my exams clash with my competition in the Arnold Classic. I obviously have to choose school because I will get other opportunities to take part in the Arnold Classic in future, said Dube.What pains the 25-year-old is that he had actually gone against his doctor s advice not to train after suffering a deep glass cut on his left forearm in October last year. The doctor had told him not to train for six months, but since he was gearing up for an international event, Dube went against that advice. It s really painful; it feels like a waste of resources. I had to push despite suffering a deep cut on my left forearm. The doctor told me not to train for six months, but I decided to ignore that since I was preparing for the Arnold Classic, Dube said.The Bulawayo-based Dube qualified for the Arnold Classic by virtue of finishing second in last year s Mr Ironman where he lost to Mhaka. Dube last Saturday finished second in the Mr Zimbabwe International Trade Fair men s physique in which he again lost Mhaka.His withdrawal means Shantel Greenland, Selina Manuel and Ndumiso Dlodlo are the only Bulawayo bodybuilders taking part in the Arnold Classic.Five-time Mr Bulawayo, Lovemore Munyamana, pulled out of the biggest multi-sport show in Africa citing the high cost of dieting.The Arnold Classic Africa takes place at the Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg, South Africa, from Friday to Sunday, with Zimbabwe sending 23 athletes to the event.Team Zimbabwe to Arnold Classic AfricaSenior men bodybuilding: Garikayi Mujuru, Nigel Maphosa, Ndumiso Dlodlo, Paul Goredema, Blessing Nyapimbi, Brighton MazikanaSenior men classic bodybuilding: Eliah Samaringa, Michael Shoniwa (also doing junior men classic bodybuilding)Men s physique: Godwin Simbarashe MhakaJunior men s physique: Edvaldo Silva MateusMen s fitness: Chamunorwa Marange, Masimba Nyamajiwa, Mugove MuhambiWomen bikini fitness: Shirley Spreeth, Shantel GreenlandJunior women bikini fitness: Demi Ferreira, Selina ManuelWomen body fitness: Precious Mujuru, Hellen Costa SinclairJunior men bodybuilding: Juandre NelMasters women bikini fitness: Kirsty BaxterStrongman challenge: Gift Sango, Prosper Saungweme@Mdawini_29