Mr Frederick ShavaLeonard Ncube in Victoria Falls AFRICAN states should adopt Zimbabwe s Command Agriculture scheme as a model to enhance food security and nutrition on the continent. This emerged during a discussion by participants who attended last week s Global Expert Meeting on Agriculture and Agro-Industries Development.The three-day gathering was focused on developing sustainable and resilient food systems.Drawn from 28 countries across the world, the participants deliberated on a range of issues seeking innovative approaches to capacitating farming communities and adding value to the agriculture sector, which is a source of livelihood to nearly 70 percent of Africa s population.During discussions participants expressed admiration for Command Agriculture, a specialised Government-driven and private sector-funded initiative aimed at boosting food production in the country.The programme began in the 2016/17 farming season and sought to produce up to two million tonnes of maize from 400 000 hectares of land.The participants commended the Government for capacitating small-scale producers through linkages with large entities especially in cotton, tea and grain production. A participant from Botswana said the Sadc region has a lot to learn from Zimbabwe in agrarian programmes.Zimbabwe s representative to the United Nations Mr Frederick Shava, who is also president of the UN Economic and Social Council, said the meeting was a success as it laid ground for May 31 conference where the country will hand over the presidency to the next candidate. We are happy with the meeting as it was a success. We had 120 foreign delegates from 28 countries and this kind of publicity brings positive fortunes to our country. We are happy Government is taking serious steps in supporting the (farming) sector through Command Agriculture where it is supporting those with land with inputs, said Mr Shava. If continued, Command Agriculture will be a fantastic project for Government. This is the same way how whites succeeded in their farming. Mr Shava said going forward, Government needs to refurbish silos countrywide to ensure proper storage while also investing in irrigation to cushion the programme in times of drought.He called for partnerships between Government and private sector to embrace opportunities presented by the programme. There are daunting challenges but the future isn t gloom. We need innovation for promotion of industry and eradication of poverty as well as taking steps towards stimulating innovation including infrastructural development. This needs private and public sector partnerships while regional integration is very key to building progress, he said.Mr Shava said the ultimate goal is to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable industrial development through the Africa Agri-Business and Agro-Industry Development Initiative.Other participants said the approach towards capacitating the sector should be clustered.UN Food and Agriculture Organisation director Ms Carla Mucavi said investing in agriculture and agribusiness was not an option but a priority.@ncubeleon