Harare Bureau HOSTS Chinhoyi High School emerged football champions when they hosted the Ethical Leaf Tobacco inaugural ball games tournament which saw schools from different provinces participating in various sporting disciplines. More than 10 schools participated in this year s event.The event gave the pupils a chance to showcase their skills ahead of the Copa Coca-Cola national schools tournament.Chinhoyi High won the tournament after trouncing Nemakonde High 3-1 in a derby.To get to the final Chinhoyi High first beat Falcon College (Chinhoyi) 8-0 before sending Thornhill High from Gweru packing with a 9-1 scoreline to set the semi-final duel with Mandedza High from Seke.Chinhoyi, who were ruthless throughout their games, edged Mandedza 2-1.Mandedza had qualified for the semi-finals after beating Thornhill.Chinhoyi won the trophy plus $300 while Nemakonde walked away with a trophy and $200.Ridziwe High beat Mandedza to settle for third place and got a trophy and $100.Speaking to journalists on the side lines of the event, ELT chief executive David Machingaidze said the event was aimed at supporting social programmes in tobacco communities. We value sport as a vehicle for instilling discipline among the children, said Machingaidze. We are looking forward for this event to become the biggest tournament in the country, through available partnership with Chinhoyi High. The tournament, he said, was the beginning of a long relationship with the school.Machingaidze also urged other tobacco companies to follow ELT s example to participate actively in communities where they were getting their business. I hope they will follow what we have started and this will lead to sustainable development, said Machingaidze.Chinhoyi High headmaster Savious Mutupa hailed ELT for partnering the school. The tournament was very impressive and second to none because it was well organised, said Mutupa. Our sponsors came in a very big way and as a school and community we are excited about it. What is exciting us most is the fact that the proceeds of today s event will go towards drilling a borehole for the most disadvantaged township in our community. I think it will go a long way. 