It is not every day that a poor and illiterate young man from the remote parts of a Third World country is raised by God to start a mega work with a global appeal. Not only were his personal circumstances an inhibiting factor but the colonial system and racist attitude of the day was another mountain to be scaled. Theologians tell us that when the Apostle Paul declared to the Romans, I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation to the Jew first and to the Greek , the church was still in its infancy and there was every reason to be ashamed.Firstly, the church met in homes as opposed to the magnificent synagogues of the day.The founder of Christianity, Jesus had died a criminal s death on the cross and the proclaimers of the Faith were simple uneducated fishermen. However all this was in line with the principles of the Kingdom of God where God chooses the despised things of the world in order to confound those that are considered to be noble.Such is the story of Archbishop Professor Ezekiel Handinawangu Guti, the humble servant of God who in 1960 was used by God to found ZAOGA FIF, a ministry that has spanned over 138 nations on all the continents of the world in 57 years of ministry!Born in Chipinge on May 5, 1923, Ezekiel grew up under difficult circumstances but under His watchful eye, the Lord ensured that the purposes of God were not thwarted.Providence ensured that the young man not only met Christ as Lord and Saviour but found his way to the then Salisbury so that he was to be strategically positioned for what was to come.When defining his call the Apostle Paul declares, When it pleased God who separated me from my mother s womb, to call me by his grace, to reveal his son in me that I might preach him, immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood . In the same vein Archbishop Guti says, The God who showed me many stars in Heaven in 1946 said to me; These stars you have seen are a sign of many people. You will lead many people who will go to heaven .God said to Abraham, I will bless thee and multiply thy seed as the stars of the Heaven. (Genesis 22:17-18). Therefore, all those who are in this ministry will go to Heaven if they keep this truth and walk in the Holiness of God.So without any funding, assets or buildings, on May 12, 1960 under a gum tree began this great work. From these humble beginnings, the Lord has been so faithful that today the church boasts hundreds of church buildings across the world, five Bible colleges (three in Zimbabwe, one in Ghana and one in Zambia). To benefit the nation and the world at large, today ZAOGA runs a state-of-the-art university, ZEGU in Bindura, Mbuya Dorcas Hospital in Harare, a unique hospital with both a medical and a non-medical wing where patients are prayed for and receive total healing. The 24-hour television station, Ezekiel TV, also beams across the globe.Socio-economic developmentAs the vision continues to grow and realising its socio-economic role, the church has established two schools in Bulawayo, Eunor Guti Academy, a high school located in Kingsdale suburb and Ezekiel Guti Primary School in Cowdray Park suburb. The high standards in these institutions are a true reflection of the ZAOGA brand.The church has over the years emphasised the teaching on the value of hard honest work and giving as the keys to prosperity.This has taught and made members of the church financially independent. This has not only transformed individual households and the corporate body of Christ but has also played a significant role both directly and indirectly in the country s economic development by raising the standard of living of the populace especially in the country s prevailing tough economic environment.The church has been able to send missionaries to countries such as the UK, USA, Australia, New Zealand, Canada among others.As ZAOGA celebrates 57 years of the grace of God, more frontiers continue to be opened up. THE CHURCH IS MARCHING ON! ZAOGA YAFAMBA CHAIZVO! IZAOGA ISIHAMBILE IMPELA!!!&nbsp;