AlainaBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent SIX months after losing her brother to a road accident, R&amp;B musician Alaina has opened up on how difficult his death has been to her, noting that music has lifted her from rock bottom. Alaina (real name Shanice Pullen), has been going through varied emotions after she lost her brother Alden Pullen in a freak motorbike accident last year.The story that made headline news described how Alden fell head long and hit a pole after his motorcycle developed a mechanical fault along St Alban s Drive in Bulawayo s Parklands suburb.Still devastated about the loss of her brother, Alaina is uneasy talking about him.The musician can talk about anything else, but the mention of her brother unsettles her quivering her voice though she tries to bury all the emotions with her smile.Opening up on Alden s death, Alaina said: We were very close. I loved him so much. As a brother, he was very protective of me. We fought a lot, but I suppose that was just sibling rivalry. It s taking a lot from me, she said.Alaina said music has been key in her emotional recovery adding that with her experience, she hopes to touch lives by consoling those who face similar situations. Music is a healer and I hope in the near future when I do put out my project it ll help other people deal, not only with the loss of a sibling, but with the loss of a family member. I want my music to be a source of healing for others, said Alaina.Known for her debut track Juice Box, Alaina had taken a back seat in music to focus on her studies in Cyprus where she is studying towards a degree in Advertising and Marketing.On Saturday last week, she made her first performance this year at the launch of the Open Eye Studio. She said she was back in the studio and has released a single titled Forever. I ve been writing exams and I m a little undecided as to push an album or a single. Apart from her solo projects, Alaina has also collaborated with local rapper Mr Kata on a single titled Mashiripiti. She said they related well and coincidentally, Mr Kata recently lost his sibling. As artistes we vibe and understand each other s style. Mr Kata is such a pleasure to work with. He also lost a sibling so he s actually helping me channel all those emotions into my music. He s also helping me deal with my loss through music. &nbsp;