Travis ScottShowbiz Reporter CASTLE Lite drinkers in Zimbabwe are set for a memorable experience as their beverage is planning to treat them to an all-expenses paid trip to Johannesburg, South Africa, next month. Through its Castle Lite Unlocks promotion, Delta Beverages is running a digital promotion that will see them take 14 lucky drinkers to the neighbouring country to attend the Castle Lite Unlocks music concert taking place on June 15 and 16. There, the imbibers will be serenaded by Travis Scott and Bryson Tiller. The Castle Lite Unlocks promotion that has been running since April will give our consumers an opportunity to win branded prizes and an all-expenses paid VIP experience package to the Johannesburg Music Concert, where rising Hip Hop sensations Travis Scott and Bryson Tiller will thrill the crowds on the 15th of June, read a statement from Delta Beverages. This year, Castle Lite has raised the bar and there ll be 14 lucky winners of the VIP experience packages. The brand through Delta Beverages will fly the winners down to South Africa for two nights of extra cold enjoyment with Castle Lite. Things to look forward to include a night out on the town as well as exclusive VIP access and Golden Circle tickets to the Castle Lite Unlocks Music Concert. Local winners will team up with others from the region and enjoy exclusive VIP access and golden circle tickets to the concerts taking place in Johannesburg and Polokwane. Our consumers will be hosted in a fully catered VIP suite along with other winners from across Sadc region including Namibia, Zambia, Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland. This is an extra cold experience not to be missed. To enter the digital competition, one must buy one or more bottles of Delta Beverages Castle Lite, retrieve the unique code under the crown, go to www.castlelite.com select Extra Cold Music and fill in their details and unique code on the entry form online then submit.To increase their chances of winning, consumers are being allowed to enter as many times as they wish.The deadline for submissions is May 31. Dubbed as one of South Africa s most sought-after events; this year s Castle Lite Unlocks experience promises to be the coldest hip-hop experience to ever hit Africa. Last year 10 lucky winners managed to travel to South Africa through the same promotion and were treated to performances by American rapper, J Cole.