Lizwe SwesweLovemore Zigara in Gweru FC PLATINUM return to Mandava Stadium when they take on Yadah Gunners in a Castle Lager Premiership encounter this afternoon. Club spokesperson Chido Chizondo confirmed the development at a press conference yesterday.Pure Platinum Play stand-in coach Lizwe Sweswe welcomed the return to their favourite hunting ground saying the Mandava turf suits his side s type of play. It has been long overdue and we would have wanted to play here since the first day of the season. I am happy that we are back home and we are happy with the turf as it suits our type of play, said Sweswe.The Zvishavane-based side welcome an out of sorts Yadah Gunners side which has lost its last three games with the last one being a 0 1 loss to Chicken Inn.On the other hand FC Platinum are enjoying their place in the sun having beaten the Gamecocks 1 0 in a midweek fixture at Luveve. Sweswe said he will keep faith in the side which beat Chicken Inn. I don t know much about Yadah Gunners because I have not seen them play. Our plan is to play possession football which we are known for and we are going to field the same team which played against Chicken Inn, he said.FC Platinum are the only team still to lose a match in the league, a development which Sweswe said will put his side under pressure as every team would want to beat them.He was, however, optimistic that his charges would collect maximum points in today s game.However, Yadah who welcome their coach Jairos Tapera, will be hoping for a change in fortunes. Since Tapera s suspension on charges of insubordination, Yadah has lost all its matches.Meanwhile, Chapungu coach Tendai Chikuni has said his side needs to collect their first set of maximum points when they take on equally struggling Harare City at Ascot Stadium today.The match is an early kick off as the game will be played at 1PM and will be broadcast live on Supersport.Chapungu are yet to collect their first full set of maximum points so far this season having only managed four points from the eight games they have played so far which has seen them anchoring the log standings. It is one of the games that you will have to be at your best as they are no pushovers. They have managed to make some progress in their team if you consider that they drew against a quality side like Highlanders. We will be very cautious in the way we approach the game tomorrow but at the same time we want a result. I am happy that the confidence levels of the boys are now up there after having drawn against Highlanders and Shabanie Mine and so if you look at this game we will need to be very offensive because we are playing at home. We need to collect maximum points to give something to our supporters, said Chikuni. @lavuzigara1&nbsp;