Cde KasukuwereHarare Bureau LOCAL Government, Public Works and National Housing Deputy Minister Christopher Chingosho has joined growing calls for the dismissal of his boss at the ministry, Zanu-PF political commissar, Cde Saviour Kasukuwere, from both Government and the party. Cde Kasukuwere is the Minister of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing.Cde Chingosho was speaking in an interview while describing circumstances surrounding his attack by rowdy youths during a Manicaland Provincial Coordinating Committee held last week.Some members of the Central Committee had to physically protect Cde Chingosho at the meeting after some of the youths took weapons such as chairs in a bid to physically harm him. I feel that the attack was a planned thing, he said. This is because before the meeting started I was surprised to see Cde Shadreck Mashayamombe around and he had come early and held a number of private meetings mobilising youths and some provincial members to try and stop the votes of no confidence that were passed against national commissar Cde Kasukuwere and provincial chairman Cde (Samuel) Undenge and his wife (Letina). Cde Chingosho said he was then attacked after saying Manicaland Provincial Affairs Minister Mandi Chimene and Zanu-PF Secretary for Youth Affairs should also have votes of no confidence passed against them for undermining the authority of the President. I was attacked because I stood up and notified the meeting that they had left two other dangerous people (Cde Chimene and Cde Chipanga) in the province who are also equally guilty (as Cdes Kasukuwere and Undenge and his wife) of undermining the President, he said. These two are equally guilty and the votes of no confidence should also apply to them. They have been blocking me from getting into any provincial structure in the province because they know I will expose their shenanigans of trying to destroy the party from within. These people pretend to like the President, but they are working to destroy him and the First Lady. Contacted for comment, Cde Mashayamombe denied that he was in Mutare on the day in question. I was not in Mutare on that day, but was in Johannesburg, he said. Why should I be involved in Manicaland issues when I am from Harare? Efforts to get comments from Cdes Chipanga and Chimene were fruitless as their phones continuously went unanswered.&nbsp;