Johnson MadhukuRicky Zililo in Glendale NATIONAL Association of Secondary Heads (Nash) president Johnson Madhuku has challenged headmasters and football authorities to set up a tracking system to help monitor the progress of up-and-coming footballers. Speaking at the official launch and draw of the country s premier schools soccer tournament, Copa Coca-Cola, at Rujeko High School yesterday, Madhuku said there is a need to monitor young players progress. Through the Copa Coca-Cola tournament, players have been sent overseas to train and develop their skills. I challenge my colleagues to have a database and a tracking system to monitor players so that these stars are not lost, Madhuku said.With effect from this year, Copa Coca-Cola has changed its flagship format from boys Under-16 to Under-15 to allow participants to compete in the Five-A-Side World Cup.The girls age-group has also been changed to Under-15 from Under-17.Madhuku warned headmasters and their sports directors to guard against age-cheating. Nash is excited with the introduction of the Under-15 age-groups. Please note that the tournament is for Under-15s. This basically means that the competition is for Form Ones. You shouldn t rob these youngsters of an opportunity to develop by using over aged players. Vetting should be strict to avoid age cheating and every team from zonal games should take pictures of their squads, which will be used for the duration of the tournament, Madhuku said.The official launch paved way for zonal competitions that kick-off tomorrow.Winners of the zonal games will clash in district tournaments set for June 9. District winners will meet in provincial finals on July 7, with provincial top sides meeting in national finals that will be held at Chipindura High School in Bindura from July 21-22.Rujeko High are last year s national champions in the boys category and Chidyamakono of Masvingo are the girls defending champions.Dynamos assistant coach Biggie Zuze, ex-Highlanders and Lancashire Steel midfielder Costa Maradzike and former AmaZulu striker Kingstone Rinemhota were among the guests at the launch.Moses Gambiza, Delta Beverages sparkling beverages general manager said: We believe that this tournament will further careers of these youngsters and hopefully some will go on to be international stars. National finals drawBoys Group A: Mashonaland West, Mashonaland Central, Harare Group B: Bulawayo, Mashonaland East, Manicaland Group C: Matabeleland North, Matabeleland South, Chipindura Group D: Midlands, Masvingo, RujekoGirls Group A: Bulawayo, Masvingo, Harare Group B: Manicaland, Midlands, Chidyamakono Group C: Mashonaland East, Hermann Gmeiner, Matabeleland South Group D: Mashonaland Central, Matabeleland North, Mashonaland West.@ZililoR