Mzansi Magic s newest reality show, Uthando nes thembu, aired its first episode on Thursday night and got people talking as it lifted the curtain on polygamy and people s perceptions of it. Set in Umtentweni in rural KwaZulu-Natal, the show follows businessperson Musa Mseleku who is on a mission to change the face of polygamy. He has flung open the doors of his home for television cameras to follow his life and that of his four wives and children as they navigate a polygamous relationship, their family dynamic, staying true to tradition in a modern world and the sisterhood of the wives.Mseleku s family consists of Mamkhulu (first wife), MaYeni (second wife), MaKhumalo (third wife), MaNgwabe (fourth wife) and their 10 children.Mseleku, 43, who is into social investment projects and logistics, said he hoped that the show would lift the lid on polygamy and erase some stereotypes. We ve made a huge sacrifice as a family to allow cameras into our home, but we are hoping that this will contribute to nation building by opening our doors and lives in the hope that viewers will get to witness our lifestyle, he said.The show is filmed at the Mselekus rural homestead in kwaMadlala, KwaZulu-Natal s south coast. It unpacks how the four Mrs Mselekus balance daily school routine, homework, activities, household chores and parenting duties and spending time with their husband.Mseleku said viewers will see that polygamy as a lifestyle works when everyone is involved, this means the man and the women. If there are tensions it will not work at all. He added that his family was feeling a bit nervous but excited by the show.His wives described him as a loving, humble and respectful man who provides for his family. Though some may say Mseleku has more than enough children, he said he chose polygamy because he would like to have 20 children.Mseleku admitted that polygamy was not easy, but said money made things easier, as he could afford to take care of his family. All his wives live in separate nice houses and have two cars each. There is a family mechanic, and a driver to take his children to school.Though he did not tell us the exact number, Mseleku said he had more than 15 cars, with all of them having personalised plates saying thanxma .He did it as a way of thanking his mother who passed on after a long illness. Before she died, he said his mother told him he would never be poor in life, and she was right.Mzansi Magic head of public relations, Nondumiso Mabece commented: While the wives now maintain a loving and respectful relationship with each other, the journey to peace and harmony was not an easy one. They each share how they felt at first being introduced into a polygamous marriage, the uncertainty and insecurity. Uthando neS thembu airs on Mzansi Magic every Thursday at 8PM. Online