Andile Tshuma/Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporters A FOUR-YEAR-OLD girl from Bulawayo s Tshabalala suburb died in a hit-and-run accident along Masiyephambili road in Nkulumane on Tuesday. The driver of the car that hit her, a blue Peugeot 504, did not stop and is still at large.Nokubonga Ncube died on arrival at Mpilo hospital on Tuesday at around 7PM. Her mother, Mrs Shamiso Ncube, a reporter with Skyz Metro FM, said she had escorted a friend to board a kombi on Masiyephambili drive and was on her way back to her home in Tshabalala when tragedy struck. I was with my three children. The youngest was strapped on my back and I held the other two with my hands. As we crossed the road, she slipped from my grip. The car came speeding and in a flash my daughter was somersaulting in the air, said Mrs Ncube.Mr Abner Ncube, Nokubonga s father, said he was shocked that someone could flee from an accident scene. My daughter s life could have been saved had the driver stopped and rushed her to hospital. Critical time was wasted as passersby called an ambulance and waited for it. It is just evil and unthinkable. I do not know what is happening to humanity. My girl has left us in a very painful way, he said.Meanwhile, a man died after he was knocked down by a car near Headquarters 1 Infantry Brigade, along Bulawayo- Harare Road on Tuesday morning.Ronald Shava (69) of Northend suburb was pushing a wheelbarrow to his maize field when a car driven by Ms Chipo Chipombo hit him.The accident occurred around 6AM.Bulawayo acting police spokesperson Assistant Inspector Abednico Ncube said investigations into the accident were underway. I can confirm the death of a 69 year old man who was hit by a car along Bulawayo- Harare Road. Investigations are underway. We urge all motorists to take utmost care when on the roads in order to reduce the number of accidents occurring in our city. They are expected to be cautious at all times such that whenever anything appears ahead of them, they are able to brake and control their vehicles, he said.He warned drivers to avoid speeding as it makes it difficult to suddenly stop a vehicle in times of emergency.&nbsp;