Nasty CTWO replacements have been found for Nasty C s disqualified South African Music Awards (Sama) nominations in the best video category. There were several enquiries regarding the qualification of the rapper s music videos for Good Girls and Don t Do It in the Best Music Video category as announced at the Sama 23 nominees event on April 20.The videos, as pointed out by fans, had not been broadcast on national TV before January 31, which is a requirement according to the competition s rules. As a result, they were disqualified. Our investigations have revealed that the videos were submitted for entry on 24 January, 2017. We ve further determined that the videos were not flighted before the closing date of the entries of 31 January, 2017 as required by the Sama rules, said the Sama office. We ve always trusted that all music videos submitted for this category to us have already been flighted by broadcasters during the specified entry period of the Sama entries. This case has proven us wrong and we accept full responsibility for our oversight to further verify whether the music videos submitted for this category were in fact flighted during the relevant Sama entry period. In light of this, the two music videos are automatically disqualified because they do not meet the criteria for the Best Music Video category, said Nhlanhla Sibisi, CEO of the Recording Industry of SA (RiSA). The Samas prides itself on a rich history of accountability and credibility. Our legitimacy is in our checks and balances, including public involvement and how swiftly we act. Yesterday, RiSA released the two replacement videos, which they say were chosen after being audited to make sure they qualify. The videos are You Say You Love Me by The Kiffness, and Sjava s Uthando.Hloni Modise of HM Entertainment, RiSA, said: Following the automatic disqualification of Nasty C s two music videos from the Best Music Video of the Year category, RiSA and the Sama office have announced The Kiffness and Sjava as replacements. The videos competing in the category will now be the two new ones alongside Khuli Chana s One Source, Ameni by Miss Pru and Yipikayay by Reason.Nasty C s tally of nominations now goes down to five, which means fellow rapper Kwesta now has the most nominations for Sama 23, with his six nods. DailySun