Priestly Sybs GivenDanisa Masuku AFTER going through a rough patch in life, up-andcoming gospel musician, Given Siyabonga, decided to come up with a gospel album chronicling life s challenges he faced at a tender age. He launched the debut album titled Stepping Up last week on Saturday at Mimosa House conference centre in Bulawayo.The album has seven tracks that include Celebrate, Sebawothe, Muri Chipo Mama, Hakuna Mumwe and Nguva Yekutenda, I Give It All and the title track Stepping Up. I ve been through a rough patch where at times I d miss lessons at school and had to herd cattle to raise money for fees, but when I turned to God my life changed. The doors started to open after I was prayed for by my late Apostle Charles Chiriseri, he said.Priestly Sybs Given as he is fondly known said the song Muri Chipo Mama is a dedication to his mother who has been a pillar of strength. There was a time when I almost gave up on life when I was stuck and directionless. But my mother chipped in and reinvigorated my hope. I had to brush aside the worthless tag that had become part of me. After that I managed to pick myself up and faced life with renewed vigour, he said.Priestly Sybs Given said Sebawothe is a praise and worship song. It s a song appreciating the love of God in our lives regardless of the fact that we sin against Him on a daily basis but God forgives us, he said. Priestly Sybs Given said he will use churches that are dotted around the city as a vehicle to promote his new baby . I ll visit as many churches as I can to promote my new album. I ll start with a free show at my church after which I ll go to other churches. We ll also be giving out prizes for the best dancer and to one who will answer accurately the questions about the album, he said.The album will be sold for a dollar and will be available at Bulawayo Centre and Kingdom Life International Church along Josiah Tongogara Street.Besides holding promotional shows at churches he said he will stage open shows in and around the city.Priestly Sybs Given is in the studio working on a follow up album that will be titled Hlabelela that he expects to release in August.