Tanaka Mrewa, Court Reporter A BULAWAYO woman has been arrested for allegedly abusing her five step-children who had been placed in her custody. A court heard that the woman would assault the children with an electric cable and insult them using obscenities.State allegations are that the matter came to light after one of the children, a 14-year-old boy, took off to the streets.The woman (27), whose name has been withheld to protect the identity of the children, pleaded not guilty to a charge of ill-treating children.She told Magistrate Mr Lungile Ncube that the children were mischievous and were in the habit of searching her handbags for money.The magistrate remanded her out of custody to May 10. These children have always been a problem Your Worship. The allegations that they are levelling against me are not true. I never assaulted them with an electrical cable. The scars that they bear were there when they moved to stay with me. I would only scold them at times when they stole money from my handbags. Their father would ignore me everytime I complained about them, she said. They would constantly complain that they used to see shadows in their sleep so I would get water from prophets and sprinkle it on them before they go to bed. Each time they went to their mother they would come back with weird behaviours. Police even came to my house to interview them on their living conditions. Prosecuting, Ms Magret Takawira said between January 2015 and September last year, the woman would regularly beat and insult the children. Accused person was looking after minors aged 6, 10, 12, 14 and 16 years. She would insult them citing their mother s private parts and she would refer to her as a prostitute. Minor s paternal aunt met the 14-year-old in town in an unpleasant state. She reported the matter at Central Police Station in the CBD. Police found the minor and interviewed him why he had fled from home and he narrated their living conditions. An investigation was carried out at their house leading to the other minors opening up. They were taken to Mpilo for medical examination and a medical report was compiled, said Ms Takawira.@tannytkay