Showbiz Reporter MILITARY Touch Movement (MTM) has released the video for their song Chekeche, which for some is a vindication of under fire music video producer Vusa Blaqs who has been accused of not being able to surpass Bachura and Watchu Want. Judging by the comments online and various forums, Blaqs outdid himself with the music video.The video features MTM artistes Ex-Q, Nutty O, Jah Prayzah, Andy Muridzo, Tahle Wedzinza as well as socialite Pokello Nare and musician Ammara Brown.Produced by DJ Tamuka and Daniel Chiwedah, the video had, as of yesterday, amassed 70 000 views.Basically, the track, a party anthem which rides on an afro pop beat, seeks to celebrate the MTM musicians artistry.The music video shot in one day at two locations introduces fans to the faces behind the voices. To show that they mean business, the artistes appear clad in designer suits with lavish cars before they enter the first location, a low density suburb yard. MTM boss Jah Prayzah starts off the music video and introduces relatively unknown Tahle Wedzinza to sing the infectious chorus together.Nutty O brings a dancehall feel to the song as the location changes to a pool area. Their wardrobe also changes to jeans, sneakers and black MTM branded t-shirts.ExQ comes through accompanied by Ammara Brown to throw in his rap verse with glimpses of MTM head Jah Prayzah sitting on a throne . Pokello Nare, clad in white, is on his right. MTM heir apparent Andy Muridzo closes off the song with his verse.The reviews thereafter were encouraging with one Anthony Tapiwa Mazikana posting: Thumbs up guys. Blaqs well-done, you are the man. I m eagerly waiting for JP and Davido s video. Adamski praised Blaqs and said: Credit goes to Blaqs, well done. Great Video. Nigel Vere also weighed in: This is the best video outta Zim, money spent, money gained. $4 000 quality video, Zimbabweans are really challenging international artistes. Soul Jah Love should take a leaf from MTM and Killer T with his Bvunzwa Tinzwe video. Simply phenomenal and professional, well done?. Blaqs said he was happy with the outcome of the video and felt he had proven a point to critics. If people don t talk about you and your works, then there s something wrong that you re doing. For me, people can say whatever, but I m moving forward in the business and setting trends for them to follow, said Blaqs.&nbsp;