Engineer George MliloRichard Muponde, Gwanda Correspondent THE Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Local Government, Public Works and National Housing, Engineer George Mlilo, has thrown his weight behind Gwanda municipality s bid to take over the town s water treatment plant from Zinwa. Zinwa began water rationing after a directive from the Minister of Environment, Water and Climate Cde Oppah Muchinguri -Kashiri last month.Zinwa had resorted to water cuts to force the municipality to settle an alleged $10 million debt, but council is contesting that figure saying it owes the water authority only about $3 million.In an interview in Gwanda on Tuesday after a special full council meeting where the media was barred, Mr Mlilo said Gwanda council has the right to treat its water as it has the capacity to do so. I was talking to councillors on problems affecting the town. I was told that the problem is mostly on water where the Ministry (Water and Climate) is rationing water so that council does not increase its debt but use water according to what they manage to pay. Zinwa I am told was saying the water charges are blended nationally. However, when I looked at Victoria Falls, Beitbridge and Gwanda; the pricing is not blended at all. There are a lot of disparities asGwanda is paying 83 cents per cubic metre while Victoria Falls and Beitbridge are paying 50 and 70 cents respectively; said Eng Mlilo.He said it was not fair for Gwanda to suffer when dams were full and rivers flowing. I gathered that even when council was supplying chemicals to the Ministry of Water and Climate, the charges were the same. To me that s punishment to Gwanda and it does not deserve that. The town has the capacity to treat its own water and it should be given the plant to treat its own water which they told me it will cost 45 cents per cubic metre to residents. It s so much cheaper, Eng Mlilo said.He said he had tasked councillors to compile a comprehensive report and take it to the Ministry of Environment, Water and Climate. Now that I have been briefed and know the situation on the ground, I am there to help them when the Ministry meets next week. The problem of water should be solved immediately, Eng Mlilo said.Zinwa and council have been at loggerheads for a long time over the supply of water to the local authority.Residents have gone for over a month without water due to the squabbles. @richardmuponde