Sandra NdebeleBongani Ndlovu, Showbiz Correspondent FOLLOWING last year s successful holding of the inaugural Bulawayo Music Carnival, organisers want to have another go at it this year with a mouth-watering line up of artistes from the city. The second edition of the carnival will once again be held at Hartsfield Tshisanyama on Friday.Artistes expected to perform include Iyasa, Simunye Simunye, Sandra Ndebele, Mzoe 7, Hwabaraty, Madlela Skhobokhobo, Kontrol Tribe, Guluva 7, Cal Vin, ASAPH, TKP, Msiz Kay and Tiya.The fete will coincide with the International Nurses Day celebrations with entry pegged at $3. Cooler boxes will be allowed upon payment of $5.Sandra Ndebele commended the carnival organisers for holding the event again. The organisers have come up with the concept and it s now up to us, the artistes to deliver.We should strive to do our best given that revellers will include people from outside Bulawayo, said Ndebele.Rapper POY said: My team is very excited to be performing at the carnival for the second time. We re rehearsing as we want our act to be a very energetic interactive performance.We support the Bulawayo Carnival as it provides a platform for Bulawayo artistes to showcase their talents, he said.Bulawayo man-of-the-moment, Madlela Skhobokhobo of the Ngamnanka fame is expected to demonstrate why he is enjoying a huge following. All I can say is that people should expect nothing but my best on stage. It s a different market and I ll throw in one or two new tracks such as the one I wrote for Highlanders FC. Obviously I won t leave out Ngamnanka which people love, said Skhobokhobo.For DJ Ace Kater and Ras Boom of the Izankaleli fame, this will be their first time to perform on a big stage in Bulawayo. The two said they were more than excited. We ve been waiting for such a platform for a long time. This is one big event and we promise to give nothing but the best, said Ras Boom. After the 40 000 views we got on YouTube for Izankaleli, we hope people in the City of Kings will come out in their numbers to support us. We ve new tracks, MaDube and Hope You Serious which fans will sample at the carnival. 