Auxilia Katongomara, Chronicle Reporter THE Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) has dismissed as false recruitment messages circulating on social media and warned those behind the fake messages that they will be prosecuted. The army said recruitment messages are only flighted in the main stream media and not through social media and other agencies. ZNA public relations director Lieutenant Colonel Alphios Makotore said the army had noted with concern the continued misuse of social media platforms by some criminal elements who are posting false notices about the military. These false notifications, which are currently in circulation on WhatsApp, are to the effect that there will be a recruitment exercise by the Zimbabwe National Army throughout the country s provinces during the months of May and June 2017.The Army wishes to categorically make it clear that there is no such recruitment taking place. The criminal elements masquerading as recruitment agents are not representing the ZNA or any of its members in any way, said Lt Col Makotore. He said the false notifications are directing job seekers to report to the nearest military institutions in the Midlands, Manicaland, Masvingo, Matabeleland South and Matabeleland North provinces. The ZNA would like to warn members of the public that these notices are fake and false hence they must be dismissed with the contempt they deserve. Once again, the ZNA would like to reiterate and advise the public that it does not recruit through agents and social media. The origins of these fake messages are being investigated and the criminal elements once apprehended will be prosecuted, said Lt Col Makotore.He said all ZNA recruitment programmes are advertised in the mainstream print and electronic media. Lt Col Makotore said when the army is recruiting, prospective applicants respond through written applications, and then a selection process follows at designated military camps throughout the country s provinces. He said members of the public must report any suspicious persons masquerading as members of the ZNA on recruitment exercises to the nearest army camp or Police station.Lt Col Makotore said the public is free to seek clarifications from Army Recruitment Office on (04) 707459 or Army Public Relations Directorate on (04) 700316 or the Zimbabwe Military Police on (04) 790591.@AuxiliaK