Whinsley Masara, Chronicle Reporter A 42-YEAR-OLD man from Kezi allegedly beat up his mother before fatally axing her over a pot of cooked pumpkin. Samson Soro, who is said to be mentally challenged, was reportedly discharged from Ingutsheni Central Hospital less than two months ago.He allegedly killed his mother last Friday.Samson wanted to eat a whole pot of cooked pumpkin but his mother would not allow him, resulting in him beating her up and axing her.He assaulted Julia Soro (68) with a metal garden rack before axing her several times on her arms, legs and head which resulted in her dying on the spot.She was rushed to Kezi District Hospital where she was pronounced dead upon arrival.The incident occurred at around 10AM at Julia Soro s homestead in Bidi Area, under chief Bidi.Matabeleland South police spokesperson Inspector Philisani Ndebele confirmed the murder and said investigations were underway. I can confirm a 42-year-old mentally challenged man murdered his 68-year-old mother after a misunderstanding. We have arrested the suspect and investigations are underway, he said.Insp Ndebele encouraged members of the public to treat mentally challenged persons with vigilance. Family members or community members should learn to deal with mentally challenged persons with caution as they can be dangerous. Such patients are unpredictable and people should always be on alert, avoid arguing with them as much as possible, he said.A relative, only identified as Newa, said the argument started over cooked pumpkin. Samson was demanding more pumpkin after he finished eating his share. When his mother refused to give him more, he grabbed the whole pot. The two started arguing and Samson looked vicious and when I tried to stop him from attacking his mother, he pushed me away, prompting me to call neighbours to come and rescue my aunt, she said.Newa said Samson struck his mother several times with a garden rack until she fell to the ground. Once on the ground, he attacked her with an axe, injuring her severely. By the time we arrived with a number of neighbours, we found him finishing her off. She died within minutes, said Newa.Chief Bidi- the area s traditional leader- said he got to know of the matter through social media platforms before he could meet the family and the community. I saw it trending on WhatsApp platforms and must say I was shocked indeed. It is sad for such an elderly person to be attacked by their own child to death. I encourage villagers to be always on alert with such people as they are unpredictable and can become extremely dangerous, he said.Julia was pronounced dead on arrival at the hospital.Samson who didn t attempt to flee or resist arrest was apprehended by villagers who handed him over to the police.@winnie_masara