Allen Khumalo Sports Reporter Chicken Inn 1-0 Shabanie MineCHICKEN Inn FC recorded their first home win of the season after beating Shabanie Mine 1-0 in a Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match played at Luveve Stadium yesterday. Darryl Nyandoro s 73rd minute header was all Chicken Inn needed to collect their first set of points at home.Nyandoro made a run into the box to head the ball over Shabanie Mine goalkeeper, Samuel Mafukidze who was way off his line.The Gamecocks have been finding the going tough in their home turf after losing 1-0 to Black Rhinos on Match Day Four followed by a 1-0 loss against How Mine FC and another 1-0 loss to FC Platinum.Their coach Rahman Gumbo said the win is a big relief to his charges. It s a bit of a relief in terms of winning as this is our first win at home. I think the boys are now focused on the job at hand and they believe they can do it. I can say this is a sign of good things to come. I have to give them credit for the win, said Gumbo.After dominating possession for the greater part of the first half, Shabanie Mine should have taken the lead in the 42nd minute after Collin Dhuwa turned Chicken Inn defenders inside-out at the edge of the box only to fire his effort over the bar.The second half was evenly contested with both teams creating a couple of chances but failed to find the back of the net.Shabanie Mine coach Takesure Chiragwi was happy with how his charges played despite the loss. We played according to our game plan. It s unfortunate that we conceded a very soft goal. The goalkeeper and the defender failed to communicate at the back leading to the goal. It s sad but they played very well and in soccer one mistake can cost you. In the first half we played good football but we failed to find the back of the net, Chiragwi said.Teams:Chicken Inn: Elvis Chipezeze, Passmore Bernard, Divine Lunga, Moses Jackson, Guide Goddard, Thomas Kadzaridzire (Brian Juru, 57th min), Clemece Matawu, Majika (Kudakwashe Gurure, 77th min), Innocent Mucheneka, Tafadzwa Kutinyu, Darryl Nyandoro (Christopher Samakweri, 78th min)Unused subs: Lawe Lawe, Pride Zendera, Nicholas MuchadeyiShabanie Mine: Samuel Mafukidze, Tinashe Chigede, William Mapfumo, Joe Nyabinde, Admire Dzumbunu, Nyasha Mpofu, Collin Dhuwa, Wellington Taderera, Dylan Chivandire (Benjamin Mukundu, 78th min), Tinashe Mupuma (Farai Mupasiri, 63rd min), Bruno Mutigo @khumzallen