Minister Saviour Kasukuwere Nqobile Tshili, Chronicle Correspondent THE Government has slammed opposition parties for politicising its decision to allocate chiefs service vehicles following its procurement of 226 Isuzu double cab cars for traditional leaders. The Minister of Public Works, Rural Development and National Housing, Cde Saviour Kasukuwere, said it was ridiculous for  opposition parties to go against the improvement of chiefs’ lives. He said this yesterday in Bulawayo at the National Chiefs Conference that is running up to today where President Mugabe is expected to address the traditional leaders. MDC-T spokesperson Mr Obert Gutu seemed to question the rationale in purchasing service vehicles for traditional leaders. But Cde Kasukuwere castigated the opposition for politicising the Government’s responsibility in matters concerning Chiefs. “Chiefs’ vehicles are not a question for debate. Some of the opposition parties have been making a lot of noise over the procurement of vehicles for Chiefs,” he said. “Yesterday the MDC-T was querying the Government’s decision to purchase vehicles for Chiefs. Yet he (Gutu) is an MP who also received a vehicle from Government. He questions why Government bought vehicles for Chiefs. That’s where you realise the level of thinking of some of the people in the country. How can one be angry over Government’s decision to buy cars for Chiefs?” Cde Kasukuwere said the Government would remain committed towards improving the living conditions of traditional leaders. He said the annual Chiefs conference allowed the President and Ministers to interact with the traditional leaders to learn about their challenges and how they can be addressed. The Minister decried chieftainship contestations calling for families to follow procedures in choosing a new chief. “We are concerned that when a chief dies there is always a problem over the installation of another one. “Please let’s go back to our traditions and allow the leading house to take over the chieftainship. We should not make excuses as this is clear, a Chief comes from house where another Chief originated from,” said Cde Kasukuwere. The Chiefs Council president Fortune Charumbira bemoaned the fact that traditional leaders were not receiving allowances for presiding over traditional courts. He challenged the Ministers not to sideline the traditional leaders on issues of relevance to them. Several Ministers made presentations on issues relating to their portfolios to the traditional leaders while others are set to continue the engagement today. — @nqotshili