Leonard Ncube in Victoria Falls TOURISM and aviation industries should increase collaboration with security agents to prevent cyber crime and ensure safety of tourists. This emerged during a two-day symposium organised by tour operators, line departments and security agents that ended here yesterday. The meeting, which was attended by students from the Zimbabwe National Defence University, stressed the need for improved security especially in tourist destinations so as to ensure the country remains a favourable brand in line with international best practice. Civil Aviation Authority of Zimbabwe (CAAZ) chief security officer Mr Gilbert Chimoto said tourism and aviation industries were generally under threat from cyber crime and terrorism. He indicated that in some cases some tourists enter countries as genuine visitors and end up causing a scare. “We need to create safe and secure environments to lure more airlines so that we have more arrivals. Some of the emerging threats include cyber crime, terrorism, electronic attack and communication of false information, which are all a threat,” he said. Mr Chimoto said making careless statements especially at airports can cause a scare that can ground a plane and he gave reference to one unnamed tourist who was recently arrested at a local airport after telling airport staff that he had a bomb. Mr Chimoto said the plane was delayed by almost two hours as all passengers were rescreened. He said the country had domesticated international conventions such as the Chicago Convention on international aviation where each airport should have sound security systems. The delegates who included foreign students from China, Nigeria, South Africa among others, toured the Victoria Falls International Airport as part of the programme. In an interview after the tour, ZNDU interim Vice Chancellor and Commandant, Air Vice Marshal Michael Tedzani Moyo echoed the same sentiments saying collaboration was key for security. “There is definitely a need for collaboration with aviation, airline operators as well as tour operators as that’s a general procedure worldwide for the safety of people, airline owners and countries. You would notice that even a single careless statement can cause a lot of insecurity, hence the need for everyone to work in unison,” he said. Air Vice Marshal Moyo challenged all stakeholders to work together towards developing tourism. “After touring the airport I feel Government did a tremendous job and what’s needed now is for us to work hard in collaboration to lure airlines, which will in turn bring numbers,” he said. — @ncubeleon