Lovemore Zigara in Gweru THE Shurugwi derby pitting log leaders Nichrut and Makusha explodes this afternoon in a Central Soccer League clash at Peak Mine Stadium. Nichrut won the reverse 1–0 and will be hoping to complete a double over their rivals to maintain a grip on the top of the log. While it would be a tale of a divided town as both sides command immense support in the mining town, the neutrals would probably favour a Nichrut win to enhance chances of bringing topflight football to Shurugwi for the very first time. Nichrut coach John Nyikadzino said he was going for the kill, although conceding that derbies were very unpredictable. “Derbies are always unpredictable and at times form is not an issue because there is more at stake. However, we are a team on a mission and nothing short of maximum points will be good enough for us,” said Nyikadzino. Elsewhere, Whawha entertain unpredictable TelOne at Whawha Grounds in a must win encounter for the side to remain in contention for a return to the topflight league. The prison warders are third on the league table with 64 points, but have an inferior goal difference and must win all their remaining games and hope other teams drop points for them to earn a promotional ticket. Luke Petros–Jukulile, who guided Whawha to their maiden Premiership dance in 2015, still believes he can repeat the same feat. “Every game we are playing is like a cup final now and this game is no different. “We cannot afford to lose points at this stage of the competition and will fight for everything,” said the former Warriors’ gunslinger. At Battlefields, army side Tongogara welcome Blanket Mine in another must win encounter. The army side coach Kelvin Maphosa said his side needs to come to the party and believe in themselves to conquer the gold miners this afternoon. Fixtures Silo United vs Chrome Stars (Mbizo), FC Platinum U19 vs Ivan Hoe (Mandava), Kwekwe Stars vs ZRP Gwanda (Amaveni), Nichrut vs Makusha (Peak Mine), Tongogara vs Blanket Mine (Battlefields), Border Strikers vs ZPC Munyati (Dulivhadzimu), Black Eagles vs Gwanda United (Simbi), Whawha vs Telone (Whawha), Vumbachikwe vs TelOne (Whawha). — @lavuzigara1